


Table of Contents

AP Jagananna Vidya Deevena Scheme 2020AP Jagan Anna Vidya Deevena Scheme Apply Online FormAP Jagan Anna Vasati Deevena SchemeAP YSR Kapu Nestam SchemeAP Vahana Mitra Scheme Phase 2
Andhra Pradesh govt. had approved Jagan Anna Vidya Deevena Scheme on 27 November 2019 previous year. Under this AP Jagananna Vidya Deevena Scheme 2020, AP govt. will provide 100% fee reimbursement to students from poor category. AP cabinet has also approved 2 other major schemes namely Jagananna Vasati Deevena Scheme and YSR Kapu Nestam Scheme. The Jagan Anna Vidya Deevena Scheme online application form is available at navasakam.ap.gov.in where people can download and apply for its benefits.
Jagananna Vidya Deevena Scheme will enable students to pursue their education without worrying about expenses. The state govt. of AP will pay fees for all quarters in a single fiscal year without any arrears. AP govt. has spent nearly Rs. 12,000 crore in 11 months on children’s education. This scheme will benefit around 12 lakh poor students to enable them to pursue their higher studies.
AP govt. will also release Rs. 1,880 crore leftover by the previous TDP government in the form of arrears along with fee reimbursement amount of Rs. 4,000 crore. In this post, we have mentioned the complete details of AP cabinet decisions as well as scheme details. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Jagananna Vidya Deevena Scheme 2020
The important features and highlights of 100% Fee Reimbursement Scheme are as follows:-

Under Jagan Anna Vidya Deevena Scheme, the fee of students belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, backward classes, minorities, Kapus, economically backward classes and differently-abled categories will be reimbursed.
Any student whose annual family income is less than Rs. 2.5 lakh are eligible under Jagananna Vidya Deevena Scheme.
Those with 10 acres of wetland and 25 acres of dry land are also eligible for the benefit.
There is no income limit for students hailing from families of sanitation works and those who are professionally dependent on taxi, auto, and tractor. However, The income taxpayers will not be eligible.
Initially, the full fee reimbursement will be extended to students pursuing B Tech, B Pharmacy, M Tech, M Pharmacy, MBA, MCA, BEd and such courses.

AP Jagan Anna Vidya Deevena Scheme Apply Online Form
All the interested people can download AP Jagan Anna Vidya Deevena Scheme online application form through the link given below:-
http://navasakam.ap.gov.in/downloads/fee_reimbursement.pdf


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The AP Jagananna Vidya Deevena Scheme apply online form will appear as shown below:-
AP Jagananna Vidya Deevena Scheme Apply Online Form Download
AP Jagan Anna Vasati Deevena Scheme
AP govt. also approves Jagananna Vasati Deevena Scheme to help students with their hostel and mess charges in the institutions. Under this scheme, ITI students will receive Rs 10,000, polytechnic students Rs 15,000, and degree students Rs 20,000 every year as their mess charges. The amount would be paid in two installments, one in December and the other in July, and will be credited to the bank account of student’s mother.
The cabinet also approved allocation of Rs 2,300 crore every year for Jagananna Vasathi Deevana Scheme. The minister said the allocation for this scheme was enhanced by Rs 1,500 crore compared to the allocation by the previous government. A total of 11,44,490 students are expected to benefit from both the Jagananna Vidya Deevena Scheme and Jagan Anna Vasati Deevena Scheme. YSRCP government has increased the allocation for fee reimbursement scheme by Rs. 1,800 crore as compared to annual allocation made by the previous TDP government.
AP YSR Kapu Nestam Scheme
AP cabinet also approves YSR Kapu Nestam Scheme for women from Kapu, Balija, Telaga, Ontari communities. Under this scheme, women b/w age of 45 to 60 years will be given an assistance of Rs. 15,000 per annum. Each beneficiary will get Rs 75,000 in five years to help them improve their living conditions. The cabinet approved implementation of YSR Kapu Nestham scheme with an allocation of Rs 1,101 crore and Rs 900 crore every year thereafter. 
AP Vahana Mitra Scheme Phase 2
AP govt. has also allocated Rs. 63 crore for implementation of Vahana Mitra Scheme Phase 2 for auto, taxi, maxi cab owners cum drivers. Under this scheme, each driver / owner will get Rs. 10,000 per annum for annual maintenance of their vehicles. AP Vahana Mitra Scheme was launched in September 2019 and over 1.7 lakh applications were approved and sanctioned for financial aid. 
Its guidelines were relaxed in October 2019 to enable more owners cum drivers to avail scheme benefits. In 2nd phase, a total number of 65,054 people applied for benefits and 62,637 applications were approved. The state govt. has released amount to benefit new beneficiaries. A total amount of Rs. 236 crore is distributed to beneficiaries in these two phases of Vahana Mitra Scheme. The registration of beneficiaries will continue next year.
Finally, Navaratanalu’s Pedhalandariki Illu (Housing for all poor) scheme also got approved and Rs. 25 lakh houses to be constructed. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.thehansindia.com/andhra-pradesh/cm-ys-jagan-to-launch-jagananna-vidya-deevena-scheme-today-12-lakh-studnts-to-benefit-619605
SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh govt. has started AP YSR Navasakam Scheme 2019 which is a revolutionary step for implementation of govt. welfare schemes. The process for identification of YSR Navasakam Scheme beneficiaries has been started on 20 November at navasakam.ap.gov.in. All those persons whose name appears in the AP YSR Navasakam List of Beneficiaries would be issued new cards to take benefits of welfare schemes. 
For each scheme, a separate card would be provided to each beneficiary. Under this scheme, village / ward volunteers will conduct door to door survey till 30 November to identify all beneficiaries. The official website for YSR Navasakam Scheme is now functional at navasakam.ap.gov.in 
Later, AP YSR Navasakam Scheme List of Beneficiaries would be displayed in the village/ward secretariats for social audit. The complete process for beneficiary identification will end on 20 December 2019.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP YSR Navasakam Scheme Enrollment & Beneficiary List
To implement govt. welfare schemes & to provide scheme benefits to intended beneficiaries, govt. starts AP YSR Navasakam Scheme. The complete procedure for enrollment and preparation of beneficiary list is given below:-

Village / Ward Volunteers will conduct door to door survey b/w 20 November and 30 November 2019.
On their visit, enrollment of AP YSR Navasakam Scheme beneficiaries would be done.
From 1 December 2019, the beneficiary list will be shown in village/ward secretariats for social audit.
The scrutiny of applications will take place from 2 Dec to 7 December 2019 and a draft list will be prepared on December 9.
From December 10 to 14, objections list will be accepted.
Afterwards, the selection of AP YSR Navasakam Scheme beneficiaries would be done after conducting ward / village sabhas b/w 15 Dec to 18 December 2019.
The finalisation of AP YSR Navasakam Scheme beneficiary list would be done in the next 2 days and the whole process will get completed till 20 Dec 2019.

All the eligible beneficiaries will be sanctioned new cards from 1 January 2020. As of now, all the eligible candidates can enrol themselves in AP YSR Navasakam Scheme to avail benefits of various welfare schemes meant for them.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Schemes for AP YSR Navasakam Beneficiaries
Various welfare schemes which would be available to AP YSR Navasakam Scheme beneficiaries are as follows:-

YSR Matsyakara Bharosa
YSR Netanna Hastam
YSR Zero Interest scheme
Amma Vodi
YSR Rice Card
YSR Pension Card
YSR Arogyasri Card
Jagananna Vidya Deevena Card
Jagananna Vasathi Deevena Card
YSR Kapu Nestam
YSR Sunna Vaddi Padhakam
Cards for fee reimbursement

AP govt. has decided to provide separate cards to each eligible beneficiary of AP YSR Navasakam Scheme for every welfare scheme. For more details, visit the official website at http://navasakam.ap.gov.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.newindianexpress.com/states/andhra-pradesh/2019/nov/21/ysr-navasakam-scheme-to-identify-beneficiaries-in-andhra-pradesh-begins-2064840.html
SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP Mana Badi Nadu Nedu Scheme 2019-20CM Jagan Launch of Nadu-Nedu Scheme for SchoolsEnglish Instruction Medium in AP Govt. Schools
Andhra Pradesh govt. has launched AP Mana Badi Nadu Nedu (Our School Now and Then) Scheme on 14 November 2019. On the occasion of children’s day celebrations, more than 15,000 schools will get facelift with new Mana Badi Nadu-Nedu scheme. In this scheme, govt. will modernize schools and compare it with previous ones. The state govt. will spend Rs. 6,000 crore in next 4 years to transform govt. schools across Andhra Pradesh.
CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy has kept a prime focus on the education sector. In this Naadu Nedu Scheme, officials will take photographs of schools and amenities and place it in front of public. The AP govt. will develop schools as per the master plan of government and compare old pics with new ones. 
AP Mana Badi Nadu Nedu Scheme should be done in a community contracting manner rather than with private contractors. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Mana Badi Nadu Nedu Scheme 2019-20
The community contracting system is being implemented for the first time in the country in the form of AP Mana badi Nadu Nedu Scheme. AP govt. schools have lost their shine due to poor amenities where teachers are qualified but lack of facilities has affected student’s strength. So, govt. will now modernize govt. schools and ensure good amenities in those schools. 
CM Jagan Launch of Nadu-Nedu Scheme for Schools
At the launch event, CM Jagan Mohan Reddy said that “We progressed from land phones to smartphones. We have witnessed drastic changes with the invention of the internet and apps. All this happened within 10 years and in the next 10 years, Artificial Intelligence and Robotics will advance further. A day might come when driverless cars will be on roads.” So, AP govt. will develop infrastructure in 15,717 schools out of the 45,000 government schools in the state in the first year. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


నాడు-నేడు కార్యక్రమం ద్వారా వచ్చే 3ఏళ్లలో పాఠశాలల రూపురేఖలను సమూలంగా మార్చబోతున్నాం. తొలివిడతలో దాదాపు 15,717 పాఠశాలల్లో మౌలిక సదుపాయాలను ఏర్పాటుచేయబోతున్నాం. ప్రభుత్వ పాఠశాలల ప్రమాణాలను మెరుగుపరిచేందుకు ఈ ఒక్క సంవత్సరంలోనే రూ.3,500 కోట్లు కేటాయిస్తోన్న ఏకైక ప్రభుత్వం మనది. pic.twitter.com/UjKHd8NR9z
— YS Jagan Mohan Reddy (@ysjagan) November 14, 2019
 
AP govt. will work hard under Mana Badi Nadu Nedu Scheme to revive lost glory to govt. schools in rural areas. School buildings, computer labs, separate toilets for girls and boys will be constructed in govt. schools in next 4 years. Mandal education officers at mandal level will monitor the developmental activities. 
Several engineers will take up the construction of additional classrooms and restore old buildings with new ones. Furthermore, the parent’s committees will play significant role in the scheme and development works will be taken considering their suggestions. All those people who wants to do something in their hometown can share their ideas and advises to community contracting method.
English Instruction Medium in AP Govt. Schools
To improve education standards, AP govt. will introduce English medium of instruction in government schools for class I to VI from the next academic year. Some people are opposing english medium of education in the name of protecting and preserving Telugu culture. But without being taught in English, students will end up in menial and unskilled jobs. They will end up as daily wage earners or car drivers in case they are not in a position to compete in the international job market.
For both teachers and students, changing from telugu to english medium of instruction will be a tedious task. For this purpose, teachers would be given training. The state govt. will introduce bridge courses and setup english labs. In the last financial year, AP govt. had only allocated Rs. 20 crore for 45,000 government schools.
AP govt. will also provide Rs. 15,000 per annum to every parent who admits his children in school. Moreover, AP govt. will also extend Rs. 20,000 per year to every mother who admits her child in degree or engineering courses to meet mess charges and other expenses.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/vijayawada/state-govt-to-introduce-nadu-nedu-scheme-to-develop-govt-schools/articleshow/71586649.cms
SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

Connect to Andhra Web Portal RegistrationRegister at Connect to Andhra Portal to CollaborateContribute at Connect to Andhra Web PortalConnect to Andhra Pradesh Portal Objectives
Andhra Pradesh govt. led by CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has unveiled Connect to Andhra Pradesh Web Portal (connect.ap.gov.in). Now people can contribute to gram panchayat, municipal ward or project by making Connect to Andhra Web Portal Registration. Moreover, people can even register to collaborate with govt. on various development projects. Connect to Andhra Portal aims at welfare of its people through effective utilisation of CSR and philanthropic funds.
The Social Responsibility Wing of the Planning Department has developed an inclusive platform for government departments, private & public corporations, social impact organizations and philanthropists. Connect to Andhra Portal is developed with shared goal of mobilizing resources for the sustainable development of Andhra Pradesh with main focus on Navratnalu.
People can register at Connect to Andhra Web Portal to collaborate or contribute for various govt. schemes or projects.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Connect to Andhra Web Portal Registration
Connect to Andhra portal will allow for wide-reaching, comprehensive information sharing on the ongoing, externally funded, development projects in the state. This web portal will ensure transparent monitoring and reporting of the same to contributors. Now people can make Connect to Andhra Web Portal Registration to either collaborate or contribute as mentioned below.
Register at Connect to Andhra Portal to Collaborate
Here is the procedure to collaborate by making registration at Connect to Andhra Portal:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Firstly visit the official website at connect.ap.gov.in
At the homepage, click at the “Collaborate” button to register to collaborate with govt. on development projects.
Afterwards, people can “Sign Up” as an individual or an organization. The Register to Collaborate page will appear as shown below:-
Connect to Andhra Portal Registration Collaboration
Here the specified entity have to enter their details accurately to complete the Sign Up process.

After completion of Sign up process, entity can make Login to collaborate with AP govt. on development projects.
Contribute at Connect to Andhra Web Portal
Below is the complete process to contribute at Connect to Andhra web portal:-

Firstly visit the official website at connect.ap.gov.in
At the homepage, scroll over the “Contribute” tab in the main menu and click at “Contribute to a Project” option or directly click this link
Then the contribution page will appear as shown below:-
Connect to Andhra Portal Registration Contribution
Here people can enter their district, mandal / municipality, panchayat / ward, sector and click at “Search” button to check List of projects available for contribution.

In this manner, people can contribute to a Gram Panchayat, Municipal Ward or a Project. People can even check the Sector Wise Spending Of CSR and district wise partner spendings at Connect to Andhra portal.
Connect to Andhra Pradesh Portal Objectives
The main aim to develop connect.ap.gov.in portal is to attract social impact funding from diverse donor groups for specific project needs of the state. Moreover, Connect to Andhra portal will optimize utilization of received funding and establish credibility of the implementing line departments.
CM YS Jagan Reddy led AP government is committed in its efforts to bring upward mobility in the lives of marginalized population of the state. Andhra Pradesh govt. is running flagship schemes “Navaratnaalu” which includes universal health-care, access to education, housing, social security for the eligible beneficiaries.
CM message reads that “It’s a great opportunity to show your love for the state. It doesn’t matter how much you help. You can take up any activity in your district, for your village or your constituency”.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: http://connect.ap.gov.in/
SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP YSR Adarsham Scheme 2019AP YSR Adarsham Scheme List of BeneficiariesAP YSR Adarsham Scheme State Level CommitteeAP YSR Adarsham Scheme District Level Committee
Andhra Pradesh government is going to start a new AP YSR Adarsham Scheme 2019-2020. Under this scheme, the AP govt. will provide vehicles to unemployed youths. This is a self employment scheme for transportation of sand and other essential commodities through Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation (APMDC), Andhra Pradesh Civil Supplies Corporation (APCSC), Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited (APBCL) and other govt. agencies.
Around 6,000 trucks would be inducted in AP YSR Adarsham Scheme 2019-20 for transportation through the welfare corporations with bank linkage. With this scheme, the state govt. wants to ensure that each jobless candidate can earn upto Rs. 20,000 per month.
The AP govt. wants to provide employment opportunities to youths so that they can earn their livelihood and lead a life of dignity and honour.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP YSR Adarsham Scheme 2019
The important features and highlights of this AP YSR Adarsham Scheme are as follows:-

AP govt. will provide vehicles to unemployed youths to create employment opportunities & make them self reliant.
This self employment scheme in AP will remove bottlenecks in transportation of sand and other essential commodities.
The transportation would be done under various corporations like APMDC, APCSC, APBCL.
The customers will get sand and other commodities at affordable rates after induction of upto 6000 vehicles.

In AP YSR Adarsham Scheme, APMDC will take the order of sand requirement from the customers. Then these jobless candidate beneficiaries who are given vehicles by the welfare corporation will transport it. Afterwards, the payments would be issued in real time after successful delivery of sand.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

In the similar manner, APCSC and APBCL will hire these vehicles to transport their commodities. The vehicles under AP YSR Adarsham Scheme will be allotted on the basis of customer’s requirements. The unemployed candidates will get these vehicles under Bank linked programme by all the welfare corporations.
AP YSR Adarsham Scheme List of Beneficiaries
The complete AP YSR Adarsham Scheme list of beneficiaries is being prepared and would be released soon. As soon as the YSR Adarsham beneficiary list becomes available for public, we will update it here.
All the AP YSR Adarsham Scheme beneficiaries will deliver sands to the customers doorsteps. For this delivery, each unemployed will get monthly payments as per the offered services. This scheme aims to provide each jobless candidate with an assured monthly net income of Rs. 20,000. Moreover at the end of the repayment period of 5 years, the AP YSR Adarsham Scheme beneficiary will become the owner of the vehicle without any encumbrances.
AP YSR Adarsham Scheme State Level Committee
The complete list of members along with their designations is given below:-

Secretary, Social Welfare Chairman
Secretary,Tribal/BC/Kapu/ Minority Welfare Corporations Member
Secretary, Mines Member
Secretary, Civil Supplies Member
Commissioner,Transport Department Member
Commissioner, Commercial Tax Member
SLBC Convener Member
MD, APMDC Convener

The following committee members will monitor the AP YSR Adarsham Scheme at State level and District level. The responsibilities of state level committee includes issuance of detailed guidelines for the system proposed, monitor functions of all the associated agencies. Moreover, this committee will fix terms & Conditions for Vehicle OEMs and identify OEMs through reverse tendering process. A process would be devised to ensure minimum payment of GST in transportation.
AP YSR Adarsham Scheme District Level Committee
The complete list of members along with their designations is given below:-

District Collector, Chairman
Executive Directors of SC / Tribal / BC / Kapu / Minority Welfare
Corporations Member
AD, Mines Member
District Tribal Welfare Officer Member
District Transport Commissioner Member
Lead District Manager Member
Joint Collector (Sand) Convener

These district level committee members will have to perform district-level assessment for transport requirements of the region. They will ensure coordination with banks for loans and support agencies in procurement of vehicles. Their most important task is to identify AP YSR Adarsham Scheme beneficiaries & make timely payments. Moreover, these members will monitor the performance of beneficiaries and will support Welfare corporations in signing an agreement with OEMs & Banks.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.tgnns.com/andhra/ysr-adarsham-scheme/2019/10/22/
SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP YSR Netanna Nestham Scheme 2020 (Phase 2)E-Marketing Platform for Handloom, HandicraftsOther Decisions in AP Cabinet Meeting
Andhra Pradesh government has started AP YSR Nethanna Nestham Scheme Phase 2 for weavers on 20 June 2020. Under this 2nd phase of scheme, the state govt. is providing Rs. 24,000 per annum to handloom weavers. Earlier, the 1st phase of Netanna Hastham Scheme was implemented from 21 December 2019 for which Rs. 600 crore has already been released. The AP YSR Netanna Nestham list of beneficiaries is now available for display in villages and towns. 
CM Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has released funds to weavers under Nethanna Hastham on 20 June. Around 80,000 weaver families would be benefited which will cost Rs. 200 crore to state exchequer. CM had promised AP YSR Netanna Nestham Scheme for handloom weavers in AP state during his padayatra. AP govt. had decided to advance the release of annual financial assistance waevers by 6 months after seeing problems faced by weavers due to Coronavirus (COVID-19) lockdown. 
The state govt. also plans to start an e-marketing platform for handloom and handicrafts to give boost to local weavers and artisans. CM released the second round of YSR Nethanna Nestham for weaver community on 20 June said that e-platform would be launched on 2 October 2020.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP YSR Netanna Nestham Scheme 2020 (Phase 2)
AP government will now extend Rs. 24,000 per year to every eligible weaver’s family who has manual weaving unit. This AP YSR Nethanna Nestham Scheme will provide assistance to handloom weavers and funds for this purpose has been released on 20 June 2020. The 2nd list of AP YSR Netanna Nestam Scheme is released in all villages and towns. As most of the handloom weavers were facing difficulty in the COVID-19 lockdown, CM YS Jagan has started this Netanna Nestham Scheme Phase 2 on 20 June 2020. AP YSR Nethanna Nestham Scheme is a first-of-its-kind initiative to boost powerloom sector in the country. 
E-Marketing Platform for Handloom, Handicrafts
To market handloom and handicrafts on the e-platform, the state govt. of AP needs to cross three bridges:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Quality which needs to be maintained by the artisans.
Logistics bridge which involves marketing.
Payment bridge.

The officials concerned would be working on this and the state govt. of Andhra Pradesh plans to launch the e-platform on 2 Oct 2020. In addition to this, the diesel subsidy on fishing boats is doubled to Rs. 9 per litre. Fishermen should take diesel from specified petrol bunks in the vicinity of fishing harbours. AP govt. will also provide guarantee to enable Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) to obtain loan of Rs. 1,000 crore to buy new buses to replace the old ones. AP Power Finance Corporation can now issue bonds of upto Rs. 4,471 crore to rescue distribution companies (DISCOMs) in financial crisis.
The state cabinet has also raised additional retail excise tax on liquor to implement its policy of imposing prohibition in phases Andhra Pradesh. The AP govt. will form a separate corporation to outsource employees in various govt. departments.
Other Decisions in AP Cabinet Meeting
The other decisions which were taken in the AP cabinet meeting are as follows:-
— Junior advocates will get stipend of Rs. 5,000 per month
— Salaries of home guards has been increased from Rs. 600 to Rs. 710 per day. There is now hike salaries of home guards to around Rs. 3,300 per month from present Rs. 18,000 per month.
— The honorarium for organizers of mid-day meals in schools has been hiked to Rs. 3,000 per month from Rs. 1,000.
The state govt. of AP will setup water grids at the district level to ensure supply of drinking water to all villages and towns. From now onward, Newspaper ad tariff would be hiked. Allotment of 1.5 acres of land to Aamoda Publications at Paradesipalem in Visakhapatnam city stands cancelled. This land has now been allocated to economically weaker sections.
The state govt. has also decided to hike allowance to fishermen to Rs. 10,000 from Rs. 4,000 during 60 day annual conservation period when fishing is not allowed. This raised assistance will also be applicable for traditional fishermen who use catamarans. Previously, only those fishermen who were using motor and mechanised boats were able to get assistance.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-nethanna-hastham-launch-postponed-to-20-june/articleshow/76391279.cms
SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP Dr. YSR Kanti Velugu Scheme Website / Apply OnlineAP YSR Kanti Velugu Screening Data Sheet (Guidelines)Dr. YSR Kanti Velugu Scheme StrategiesHow To Upload PHC / District Action PlanAP Govt. Health Schemes List 2019
Andhra Pradesh govt. has started AP Dr. YSR Kanti Velugu Scheme Website at drysrkv.ap.gov.in. Under this Kanti Velugu Programme, the state govt. will ensure comprehensive and sustainable Universal Eye Care to all the people. Check AP YSR Kanti Velugu Yojna guidelines, official website, preliminary screening data sheet and complete details.
Dr. YSR Kanti Velugu Programme in AP will organize preliminary screening of all school children in Phase 1. Currently, there are 62,459 schools having 70.41 lakh children. AP govt. will identify children with defective vision and the screening team will include 1 public health staff and 1 asha worker. Each screening team will cover 200 to 250 students every day.
Preliminary screening is to be carried out from 10 Oct to 16 October 2019 and data sheets would be prepared. These Preliminary Screening Data Sheets would be handed over to ANMs who will upload this data at PHCs.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Dr. YSR Kanti Velugu Scheme Website / Apply Online
AP govt. is committed to improve the health status and quality of life of its people. The state govt. will focus on health issues to reduce disease burden and creating an enabling environment. People can now access official website of Dr. YSR Kanti Velugu Scheme 2019 through the link given below:-
drysrkv.ap.gov.in
AP YSR Kanti Velugu Screening Data Sheet (Guidelines)
AP YSR Kanti Velugu Programme is a comprehensive and sustainable universal eye care to all the people in the state. The preliminary screening data sheet format is available in the Kanti Velugu Programme Guidelines (Read Here):-



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department will implement this health scheme. 
Dr. YSR Kanti Velugu Scheme Strategies
AP YSR Kanti Velugu Scheme is a comprehensive and sustainable Universal Eye Care scheme for around 5 crore people in the Andhra Pradesh state. Read strategies through the link given below:-
http://drysrkv.ap.gov.in/KantiVelugu.html
This proper health care facility would be provided by conducting eye screening and provision of appropriate interventions like distribution of Spectacles, Surgeries in case of Cataract, Glaucoma, Retinopathy, corneal disorders etc.
How To Upload PHC / District Action Plan
In order to upload the PHC Action Plan and District Action Plan under AP YSR Kanti Velugu Programme, the following process must be followed:-

AP Govt. Health Schemes List 2019
Here is a list of schemes pertaining to AP state govt. health programmes and policies:-

National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme
Revised National TB Control Programme
National Leprosy Eradication Programme
National Program for Control of Blindness
Integrated Disease Surveillance Project
Epidemic Control (G.E., Diarrhoea, Cholera and Jaundice)
National Iodine Deficiency Disorders Control Program
National Program for prevention and control of diabetic, cancer, cardiovascular disease and Stroke (NPCDCS)
National Program for Health care of the Elderly (NPHCE)
National Programme for prevention and Control of Fluorosis (NPPCF)
National Tobacco Control Programme (NTCP)

Health care should be within the reach of every citizen. In order to provide basic health facilities to all citizens, AP govt. has introduced and implemented various health schemes and programmes. 
— For more details, visit the official website at http://drysrkv.ap.gov.in/index.html





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: http://drysrkv.ap.gov.in/index.html
SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP YSR Scheme for Auto & Taxi Cab Drivers Apply Online FormAP YSR Auto Driver Scheme Offline Form Download PDFAP YSR Sports Incentive Scheme 2019AP YSR Pelli Kanuka Scheme 2019
Andhra Pradesh govt. has approved 3 new welfare schemes in the name of late YS Rajasekhara Reddy. AP govt. has decided to implement YSR Pelli Kanuka Scheme, YSR Sports Incentive Scheme and YSR Scheme for Auto & Taxi Cab Drivers. Under this scheme, govt. will provide Rs. 10,000 p.a to auto and taxi cabs. People can now fill online application form at aptransport.org
All the beneficiaries can apply online for AP YSR Scheme for Auto & Taxi Cab Drivers from 10 September 2019. Around 4 lakh people would be benefited from scheme for auto and taxi cabs. People can now apply online & fill Application for Financial Assistance to Self Owned Auto, Taxi, Maxi Cab Drivers at http://118.185.110.163/ysrcheyutha/
The state govt. of AP has allocated Rs. 400 crore for YSR Scheme Auto & Taxi Cab Drivers.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP YSR Scheme for Auto & Taxi Cab Drivers Apply Online Form
Below is the complete procedure to apply online for financial assistance to self owned auto, taxi & maxi cab drivers:-

Firstly visit the official AP Transport website at aptransport.org
At the homepage, click at the “Online application for financial assistance to Owner-cum-Driver w.r.t Auto, Taxi, Cab vehicles” link at the right side or directly click this link
This will open a new page for YSR Cheyutha Scheme as shown below:-
Auto Taxi Maxi Cab Drivers Scheme Apply Online
Then click at the “Online Application” link to open the AP Auto Taxi Cab Driver Scheme online application form:-
AP Auto Taxi Cab Driver Scheme Application Form
Here candidates can enter complete details to avail financial assistance under YSR Cheyutha Scheme in AP.

AP cabinet committee has approved YSR Scheme for Auto & Taxi Cab Drivers 2019. All those people who are having their own auto and taxi cabs will be provided Rs. 10,000 per annum. The wife and husband who are auto and taxi cab drivers will be counted as one unit. Even their son and daughter who are major and having their own vehicle will also be given Rs. 10,000 in the scheme.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state govt. has estimated that Rs. 400 crore will be the annual expenditure for this scheme. Around 4 lakh people would be benefited from this AP YSR Scheme for Auto & Taxi Cab Drivers. All the beneficiaries can apply online for this scheme from 10 September 2019. Transport commissioners headed by district Collectors will consider applications and select beneficiaries.
AP YSR Auto Driver Scheme Offline Form Download PDF
Now people can download the offline application form for AP YSR Auto Driver Scheme in PDF format through the links given below:-
AP YSR Auto Driver Scheme Form Download (English PDF)
AP YSR Auto Driver Scheme Form Download (Telugu PDF)
All the interested ones can now directly download application forms in English or Telugu languages in PDF format.
AP YSR Sports Incentive Scheme 2019
AP Cabinet Committee has approved cash prizes under YSR Sports Incentive Scheme for all sportspersons who had won medals at the National level. All the gold medalists would be given Rs. 5 lakh, silver medalists Rs. 4 lakh and bronze medalists will get Rs. 3 lakh. The state govt. has allocated Rs. 5 crore for this scheme.
AP YSR Pelli Kanuka Scheme 2019
AP government will implement a new YSR Pelli Kanuka Scheme 2019. The state govt. has allocated Rs. 750 crore for this scheme. This initiative of Andhra Pradesh state government will provide financial aid to the brides of different caste. 
For scheduled caste (SCs) Rs. 1 lakh, scheduled tribes (STs) Rs. 1 lakh, SCs and STs inter-caste marriage will get Rs 1.25 lakh. BCs Rs 50,000, BCs inter-caste marriages will be provided Rs. 75,000, Minorities Rs. 1 lakh, Rs. 1.50 lakhs for the disabled. Construction labor children will get Rs. 1 lakh as Pelli Kanuka under this scheme.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.thehansindia.com/andhra-pradesh/title-ap-cabinet-approves-three-new-schemes-560939
SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme Online Application Form 2020 [Apply]AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme DetailsAP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme List of Beneficiaries
Andhra Pradesh government has launched AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme 2020 for farmers. CM Jagan Mohan Reddy has cancelled the previously running Annadata Sukhibhava Scheme of the TDP government. Under the new Rytu Bharosa Yojana in AP, all the farmers will get an investment support amount of Rs. 12,500 per annum. People can now check how to apply online at ysrryhtubharosa.ap.gov.in & download YSR Rythu Bharosa application form. 
The eligibility criteria and the AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme List of beneficiaries would be released on a later date. In addition to this, CM has also directed the officials to ensure that each farmer gets minimum support price of their crops. The new input support scheme had been launched on 9th July 2019 and a cheque of Rs. 7.50 lakh has been handed over to the widow of a farmer who ended his life in 2015 due to unpaid loans.
The Rythu Bharosa scheme was launched to mark the 70th birth anniversary of YS Rajasekhar Reddy, which was celebrated by the rank and file of YSR Congress.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme Online Application Form 2020 [Apply]
The YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme apply online process has started and online application form are now available. To avail the benefits of YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme, candidates can visit the official website at:-

https://ysrrythubharosa.ap.gov.in/RBApp/index.html
At the homepage, candidates can click at the “Login” button to open page as shown below:-
AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Login
Candidates can then enter username and password to make YSR Rythu Bharosa login to apply online.

Direct link for YSR Rythu Bharosa official website – http://ysrrythubharosa.ap.gov.in/RBApp/index.html


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme Details
The important features and highlights of YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme are as follows:-

The previous Annadata Sukhibhava Scheme now stands cancelled and a new scheme namely “YSR Rythu Bharosa” Scheme is introduced in Andhra Pradesh.
Under YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme in AP, the state govt. will provide an investment support of Rs. 12,500 per annum to farmers.
The AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme beneficiary list, eligibility criteria and total number of beneficiaries to be released at a later date.
AP govt. is implementing the YSR Rytu Bharosa Scheme from 15 October 2019.

The 1st phase of AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme would be implemented on a mandal wise and village wise manner to provide economic support to farmers. The YSR Congress Party Government has decided to include tenant farmers in Rythu Bharosa scheme as they are excluded from the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-Kisan) scheme.
AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme List of Beneficiaries
The Real Time Governance Society (RTGS) is expected to prepare the AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme list of beneficiaries. There are around 66,54,891 farmers which are expected to be the beneficiaries of this investment support scheme in Andhra Pradesh. Around 15.36 lakh tenant farmers will also get benefited from farm investment support scheme. A total of 64.06 farmers in Andhra Pradesh, both landowners and tenants, are eligible for the YSR Rythu Bharosa scheme.
Each landowner farmer has already received 2 installments of Rs. 4,000 (from a total of Rs 6,000 per annum) under the PM-Kisan scheme, Now AP govt. will release its assured amount of Rs. 6,500 to each landowner / farmers. The tenant farmers are getting Rs. 12,500 each in a single tranche from 15 October 2019.
The YSRCP government had initially planned to give the farm investment support under YSR Rythu Bharosa separately, but later merged it with the PM-kisan scheme for the landowners. The installments of YSR Rythu Bharosa would be credited directly into the bank accounts of the farmer through direct benefit transfer (DBT) mode. AP govt. has set aside a budget of Rs. 8,750 crore for the scheme.
Till date, there are around 6,04,676 farmers unsurveyed. There are total 47,71,005 farmer’s families while there are 61,999 ROFR cultivators.
Also Read – AP YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme 2020
Also Read – AP YSR Aarogyasri Scheme 2020





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.thehansindia.com/andhra-pradesh/cm-ys-jagan-takes-key-decision-during-agriculture-department-review-535549
SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme Application Form 2020-21 Download PDFAlternate Method to Apply Online for AP YSR Vahana Mitra SchemeStatistics of AP Auto Taxi Driver SchemeAP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme Phase 2 Application StatusBeneficiary List 2.0 of AP YSR Vahana Mitra SchemeAP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme List of DocumentsOverview of AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme 2020
Andhra Pradesh government is inviting online applications for AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme 2020 at aptransport.org. People can apply online for Vahan Mitra Scheme & fill AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme Phase 2 Registration Form. Even the applicants can download receipt and check application status of financial Assistance to self owned auto, taxi, maxi cab drivers scheme.
CM Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch Phase 2 AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme on 4 June 2020. The primary objective is to provide money to self employed auto and taxi cab drivers which could be useful for drivers for repair work, vehicle fitness and to cover insurance expenses.
Under this scheme, the state govt. will provide financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 to around 2.62 lakh auto & taxi cab drivers beneficiaries. AP govt. credited the 1st installment in October 2019 and now CM Jagan Mohan Reddy will provide 2nd installment on 4 June 2020. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme Application Form 2020-21 Download PDF
The State Road Transport Department has begun exercise to receive applications from eligible persons to provide financial assistance under the YSR Vahanamitra scheme. Now all the people can even download AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme offline application form in PDF format, fill it and submit it to concerned authorities. The process to download AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme Application Form PDF is given below:-

Visit the official website at aptransport.org
At the homepage, click at the “Click Here for YSR VAHANMITRA Applications for 2020-21 Document Telugu / English” link as shown in the figure below:-
AP YSR Vahana Mitra Apply Form Download Links

Upon clicking these links the application forms for AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme in PDF format will appear.
Direct Link for AP YSR Vahana Mitra Application Form 2020-21 (English)
https://aptransport.org/images/pdf/ysr-vahana-mitra-english-application-in-navasakam.pdf

The AP YSR Vahana Mitra English Application Form 2020-21 will appear as shown below:-
AP YSR Vahana Mitra Application Form 2020-21 English PDF

Direct Link for AP YSR Vahana Mitra Application Form 2020-21 (Telugu)
https://aptransport.org/images/pdf/ysr-vahana-mitra-telugu-application-in-navasakam.pdf

The AP YSR Vahana Mitra Telugu Application Form 2020-21 will appear as shown below:-
AP YSR Vahana Mitra Application Form 2020-21 Telugu

Owners-cum drivers of auto-rickshaw, taxi and maxi-cab are eligible for financial aid in the current financial year. Applications can be obtained from Community Service Centres, e-seva and mee-seva centres. Applications can also be downloaded from website www.aptransport.org. Applications were submitted to Village or Ward Volunteers or Village Secretaries till 28 May 2020.

The AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme application forms are also available through offline mode at newly recruited village and ward volunteers. People can download application forms in PDF format in either english or telugu format.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Alternate Method to Apply Online for AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme
Below is the complete procedure to apply online for AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme 2020:-

Step 1 – Firstly visit the official website at https://www.aptransport.org/
Step 2 – At the homepage, click at the “Online application for financial assistance to Owner-cum-Driver w.r.t Auto, Taxi, Cab vehicles” link or directly click this link
Step 3 – Then the new page where online application link for AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme is present will appear as shown below:-
AP YSR Vahana Mitra Online Application Form
Step 4 – Then candidates can click at the “Online Application” link to open the AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme registration form as shown below:-
AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme Registration Form
Here candidates can enter the registration details and click at the “Preview” button to complete the registration process.

Statistics of AP Auto Taxi Driver Scheme
Below is the complete statistics of the AP Auto, Taxi, Maxi Cab Driver Scheme for the previous year till date:- 


Total Registered
239957


Total Verified
239957


Total Approved
236356


Total Sanctioned
236344


Total Released
236335


AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme Phase 2 Application Status
Here is the process to check application status for AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme:-

Follow the steps 1 & 2 as mentioned in the previous section.
At the newly opened page, click at the “Application Status” link or directly click this link
Then the page to check the AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme Application Status will appear as shown below:-
AP YSR Vahana Mitra Application Status
Here candidates can enter Applicant ID and Aadhar number and click at “Submit” button to check the application status.

Even the applicants can download receipt for AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme 2020.
Beneficiary List 2.0 of AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme
On the basis of applications submitted, the transport authority will verify the applications and prepare the AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme beneficiary list. Once the verification of applications is completed, then the beneficiary list would be released. Applicants having their names on the beneficiary list will be finally provided the benefit of this scheme. Only AP YSR Vahana Mitra eligible applicants will be included in the list after proper verification of details provided in the application form.
Citizens can check the beneficiary list online. As soon as the list will be made available at official website we will publish the same here on this page. Applicants waiting for beneficiary list can download it by following the given instructions-
1) Visit the same official website and click at the “Beneficiary List” option.
2) Proceed further and follow the instructions provided.
3) Afterwards, the Beneficiary list appears in which applicants can check their name in the list.
People can now download the AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme Beneficiary List for any references in future.
AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme List of Documents
Here is the complete list of scanned copy of documents required for AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme:-
A) Aadhar Card
B) White Ration Card
C) Vehicle Registration Certificate
D) Driving Licence
E) First Page of Bank Passbook
Only those eligible drivers who submits the required documents would be included in AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme Phase 2. All the applicants will have to submit application form along with documents to avail assistance for repair work, vehicle fitness and additional expenses.
Overview of AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme 2020
Here is an overview of the AP YSR Scheme for auto, taxi, maxi cab drivers 2020:-


Scheme Name
AP YSR Vahana Mitra Scheme, AP Auto / Taxi / Cab Driver Scheme


Category of Article
Apply Online Form, Application Status, Beneficiary List, Check Payment


Supervising Department
Transport Department, Government of Andhra Pradesh


Launch Date
4th June 2020


Target beneficiaries
Owners of auto rickshaw drivers, taxi, maxi cab drivers


Total budget
Rs. 400 crores


Number of beneficiaries
2,36,344


Application process
Last Date 31st June 2020


Financial Assistance to Self Owned Auto,Taxi and Maxi Cab Drivers
http://118.185.110.163/ysrcheyutha/autoDriverAppForm.do


Application Portal
http://118.185.110.163/ysrcheyutha/


Application payment status
http://118.185.110.163/ysrcheyutha/autoDriverAppForm.do?mode=applicationStatus&type=status







(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/vijayawada/govt-to-launch-second-phase-of-vahana-mitra-today/articleshow/76183632.cms
SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh government has announced the guidelines for AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme for farmers. The AP state govt. will implement Rythu Bharosa Yojana from 15 October coinciding with Rabi 2019-20 season. Under this scheme, govt. will provide an investment support of Rs. 12,500 per annum to every farmer family. This includes Rs. 6,000 amount as central govt. component under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana in 3 equal installments.
AP govt. will provide financial assistance to landowner farmer families & to SC / ST / BC and minority landless tenant farmer families. Accordingly, the assistance given to landless cultivators under SC / ST / BC / Minorities categories would be met through budgetary allocation of AP government.
The income support of Rs. 12,500 would be given irrespective of size of land holding by landowner families.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme Guidelines
To avail assistance of Rs. 12,500 per year, farmer will have to follow the conditions mentioned in the YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme Guidelines. Under this scheme, there is no restriction on land holdings by land-owner families. However, the minimum area requirement which is to be taken on lease by a single individual landless tenant farmer is different:-

1 acre for agriculture, horticulture or sericulture.
In case tenant farmer grows vegetables, flower & fodder crops, then minimum area is half acre.
For beter vines, minimum area requirement is 0.1 acre.

People must also check the list of exclusion categories so as to avail benefits of YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Exclusion Categories of AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme
Here are the complete details of exclusion categories for AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme. Any person in the following categories of higher economic status shall not be eligible for scheme benefits:-

All institutional landholders, farmer’s families in which 1 or more of its members are former or present holders of constitutional posts and former or present ministers & state ministers.
Former or present Members of Lok Sabha / Rajya Sabha / State Legislative Assemblies / State Legislative Councils, former and present Mayors of Municipal Corporations, former and present chairpersons of district panchayats are not eligible.
All serving or retired officers and employees of Central / State Government Ministries / Offices / Departments and their field units are not eligible.
Central or State PSEs and attached offices / Autonomous Institutions under Government as well as regular employees of Local Bodies (excluding multi tasking staff / Class IV / Group D employees) are also not eligible.
All superannuated / retired pensioners, whose monthly pension is Rs. 10,000 or more (excluding multi-tasking staff / Class IV / Group D employees) of the above category too are excluded.
Persons who have paid income tax in the last assessment year as well as professionals such as doctors, engineers, lawyers, chartered accountants and architects registered with professional bodies and carrying out profession by undertaking practices are also not eligible.
Persons who have paid commercial tax / professional tax / GST during the last assessment year, persons owning farmlands converted into house sites, aquaculture, or any other non-agriculture usage, either updated or not updated in the revenue records are also not eligible.

Any person finding any difficulty regarding YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme in AP can dial toll free nubers 1100 or 1902 to raise grievance. Previous scheme of the TDP govt. namely Annadata Sukhibhava has been scrapped in which govt. announced to provide Rs. 15,000 per annum to farmers. 
The scheme would be implemented from 15 October 2019 & people can then fill AP YSR Rythu Bandhu Scheme Apply Online Form after its official launch.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/govt-announces-rythu-bharosa-guidelines/article29462153.ece
SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP YSR Pelli Kanuka Scheme 2020 Apply Online at Official WebsiteCheck AP YSR Pelli Kanuka Scheme Application StatusAP YSR Pelli Kanuka Scheme 2020 Assistance AmountDocuments List for AP YSR Marriage Assistance SchemeAP YSR Pelli Kaanuka Mobile App DownloadAP Cabinet Approves YSR Sports Incentive Scheme
Andhra Pradesh government has launched AP YSR Pelli Kanuka Scheme 2020 after getting approval from cabinet. Under this scheme, govt. will provide financial assistance to the brides of different castes on the occasion of their marriage. Now people can check the AP YSR Pelli Kanuka Scheme 2020 Official Website at ysrpk.ap.gov.in, Check Application Status, Apply Online and Download App. The AP cabinet has also approved YSR Sports Incentive Scheme for sportsperson and YSR Scheme for Auto & Taxi Drivers. 
AP YSR Pelli Kanuka Scheme 2020 will provide assistance to brides of scheduled caste (SC), scheduled tribes (ST), backward classes (BC), minorities, disabled & construction labourers children. The state govt. has allocated Rs. 750 crore for the implementation of this scheme.
The state govt. of Andhra Pradesh is inviting YSR Pelli Kanuka application form through offline mode. Check the complete YSR Pelli Kaanuka registration form filling process here.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP YSR Pelli Kanuka Scheme 2020 Apply Online at Official Website
The official website for AP YSR Pelli Kanuka Scheme 2020 is ysrpk.ap.gov.in. 

YSR Pelli Kanuka Registration for Rural Area Citizens – Registrations shall be made at least (5) calendar days before the date of marriage. The Registrations can be performed from Registration-Cum-Help Desks at the Mandal Mahila Samakhyas / Velugu Office for Rural Area citizens.
YSR Pelli Kanuka Registration for Urban Area Citizens – Registrations shall be made at least (5) calendar days before the date of marriage. The Registrations can be performed from Registration-Cum-Help Desks at the MEPMA Municipality for Urban Area citizens.

Check AP YSR Pelli Kanuka Scheme Application Status
All the candidates can AP YSR Pelli Kaanuka Scheme application status through the link given below:-
https://ysrpk.ap.gov.in/Registration/cpkstatus


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The AP YSR Pelli Kanuka application status checking page will appear as shown below:-
AP YSR Pelli Kanuka Application Status
Here candidates can enter the aadhaar card of bride or groom and click at the “Get Status” button to check the AP YSR Pelli Kanuka Scheme application status.
AP YSR Pelli Kanuka Scheme 2020 Assistance Amount
Here are the complete details of financial assistance under YSR Pelli Kanuka Scheme for different category of brides:-


Category of Brides
Assistance Amount


Scheduled Caste (SCs)
Rs. 1 Lakh


Scheduled Tribes (STs)
Rs. 1 Lakh


SCs & STs Inter Caste Marriage
Rs. 1.25 Lakh


Backward Classes (BCs)
Rs. 50,000


BCs Inter Caste Marriage
Rs. 75,000


Minorities
Rs. 1 Lakh


Disabled
Rs. 1.5 Lakh


Construction Labour Children
Rs. 1 Lakh


Documents List for AP YSR Marriage Assistance Scheme
Here are the list of documents required for AP YSR Marriage Assistance Scheme:-

Birth Certificate issued by Competent Authority through the MEESEVA Center.
Caste Certificate issued by the Competent Authority through MEESEVA Center.
A copy of Wedding Card.
A copy of Aadhaar Card of both the bride and bridegroom.
Recent Passport Size photograph of bride and bridegroom.
An update income certificate of the family from all source.

AP YSR Pelli Kaanuka Mobile App Download
People can download the YSR Pelli Kaanuka mobile app from the homepage of ysrpk.ap.gov.in website. The direct links to download mobile app for Pelli Kanuka Scheme are present there.
AP Cabinet Approves YSR Sports Incentive Scheme
The state cabinet of Andhra Pradesh has also approved a new YSR Sports Incentive Scheme for all sportspersons who had won medals at National level. The gold medalists would be given Rs. 5 lakh, silver medalists Rs. 4 lakh, and bronze medalist will get Rs. 3 lakh. The state govt. has allocated Rs. 5 crore for YSR Sports Incentive Scheme.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.thehansindia.com/andhra-pradesh/title-ap-cabinet-approves-three-new-schemes-560939
SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh govt’s newly launched YSR Crop Insurance Scheme is going to benefit 70 lakh farmers. Now all the farmers in AP can apply / enroll themselves in YSR Free Crop Insurance Scheme before 21 August 2019. The total agricultural land to be covered under free crop insurance scheme in AP is 56 lakh hectares, said Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannabau.
He held a review meeting with the officials of Agricultural department on 6 August 2019. The new AP YSR Free Crop Insurance Scheme will apply for 22 types of crops in the Andhra state. Moreover, this crop insurance scheme by CM Jagan Mohan Reddy will start from this Kharif season.
It is important to note that farmers will not have to pay any premium amount to avail the benefits of this crop insurance scheme. Apply / Enrollment fees for YSR Crop Insurance Scheme is just Rs. 1.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Apply / Enroll for AP YSR Free Crop Insurance Scheme
Here are the important features and highlights of applying / enrolling online for AP YSR Free Crop Insurance Scheme:-

The last date to apply online or making enrollment in AP YSR Free Crop Insurance Scheme is 21 August 2019.
This free crop insurance scheme would benefit around 70 lakh farmers of Andhra Pradesh.
YSR Crop Insurance is going to cover around 56 lakh hectares land.
Premium amount is not required to be paid by the farmers as the state government will pay it.
Around 22 types of crops would be covered starting from this Kharif season itself.
People can just enroll themselves in this crop insurance scheme by paying just Rs. 1.

The state govt. has made necessary allocations for this crop insurance scheme in AP Budget 2019-20. As far as East Godavari is concerned, govt. said that YSR Free Crop Insurance Scheme will benefit farmers in times of natural calamities. 4 types of crops namely paddy, sugar cane, cotton and millets would be covered under this AP YSR Free Crop Insurance Scheme 2019.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

While reviewing of flood damages in the district, Kannababu said that around 2,456 hectares of paddy was inundated in 85 villages in 15 mandals. The state govt. has ordered to remove weeds in drains for free flow of flood water. 
With regard to crops in the district in kharif season , crops were taken up in 176,591 hectares. Out of this, paddy covering was in 1,55,156 hectares. Seed on subsidy to the tune of 9,934 quintals had been distributed to farmers. In addition to this, around 86,581 Mt of fertilisers were kept ready for distribution in East Godavari .





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.thehansindia.com/andhra-pradesh/ysr-crop-insurance-to-benefit-70-lakh-farmers-in-state-kannababu-552692
SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP YSR Navodayam Scheme 2019Reservation to SC / ST / BC in Andhra PradeshFree Electricity to SCs in Andhra PradeshEmployment for Youths in AP State
Andhra Pradesh govt. has announced a new scheme named AP YSR Navodayam Scheme 2019 to provide relief to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). Under this scheme, AP govt. will support those MSMEs which are facing financial crisis for last 3 years. The state govt. has identified around 86,000 MSME accounts in various districts. 
After making allocation of Rs. 400 crore in the AP Budget 2019-20 to promote MSME sector, cabinet committee has approved YSR Navodayam Yojana. The state govt. proposes to provide a one-time grant of Rs. 4,000 crore for restructuring to the MSMEs. 
This would ensure that MSME in Andhra Pradesh does not become Non Performing Assets (NPA).



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP YSR Navodayam Scheme 2019
The important features and highlights of AP YSR Nayodayam Scheme are as follows:-

The cabinet committee decides to allow one time restructuring of MSME loans of around Rs. 4,000 crore.
With this new YSR Navodayam Policy in Andhra Pradesh, it is expected that MSME accounts will not freeze and will not become NPA.
Moreover in this scheme, the state govt. will provide more credit and immediate investment to MSMEs.
AP govt. has given a time frame of 9 months to utilize the AP YSR Navodayam Scheme 2019.

AP cabinet has also approved to enact a new legislation to promote investments in the state. For this purpose, Andhra Pradesh Investment Promotion and Monitoring Act-2019 Draft Bill will be put into effect by official proclamation. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Reservation to SC / ST / BC in Andhra Pradesh
AP govt. also decides to provide 50% reservation to BC, ST, SC and Minorities in govt. corporations, boards, societies, trusts and market yards and in govt. nominated contracts, service contracts and nominated posts. AP govt. has also proposed to provide 50% reservation to women in nominated posts. In addition to this, 50% reservation would be provided to BC, SC, ST classes in temple committees.
Free Electricity to SCs in Andhra Pradesh
The state govt. of Andhra Pradesh has also approved to provide free electricity to SCs upto 200 units. For this purpose, the state govt. will spend Rs. 411 crore to benefit 15,62,684 SCs.
Employment for Youths in AP State
AP cabinet has approved bill in relation to employment of jobless youths. All the local unemployed youth would be entitled to 75% of jobs in industries in their areas. All the people who lost their lands in land acquisition to set up industries would be provided employment in those industries.
The cabinet committee has also approved the draft bill over the control and supervision of schools and higher education institutions. The main focus is on ensuring quality standards in the education institutions, fees control and implementation of the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009.
The state cabinet has also approved a proposal to give Rs. 10,000 financial aid to weavers, barbers and tailors. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/andhra-pradesh/cabinet-approves-ysr-navodayam-for-msmes/article28603205.ece
SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

YSR Urban Housing Scheme | PMAY-YSR Weaker Sections Housing SchemeYSR Housing Scheme in AP Launch DateBeneficiaries ListAP Budget 2019-2020 – YSR Rythu Bharosa YojanaAmma Vodi | Free Power Supply Sccheme | YSR-PMFBY in AP Budget
Andhra Pradesh govt. has announced 2 new schemes namely – PMAY YSR Weaker Sections Housing Scheme and YSR Urban Housing Scheme in Budget 2019-20. The 2 schemes have been allocated a total of Rs. 2,280 crore in the budget. Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy has introduced the AP state Budget 2019-20 with an outlay of Rs. 2,27,975 crore. 
The main focus of the AP govt. is on housing, agriculture, education, and human capital sectors development. While Reddy presented the AP Budget 2019-20 in the state legislative assembly, Revenue Minister Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose introduced the same in the legislative council. Allocations have been made for various other schemes like YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme, 9 Hours Free Power Supply Scheme, YSR-PM Fasal Bima Yojana, Mid day Meal Scheme.
Latest Update (As on 29 June 2020) – YSR Housing Scheme in AP is to be launched on 8 August 2020, check details here.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

YSR Urban Housing Scheme | PMAY-YSR Weaker Sections Housing Scheme
In the recently presented budget of Andhra Pradesh for FY 2019-20, the state govt. has allocated Rs. 9,786 crore for the housing sector:-

Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY Urban) – Rs. 5,000 crore
PMAY-YSR Weaker Sections Housing Scheme – Rs. 1,280 crore
YSR Urban Housing Scheme – Rs. 1,000 crore

YSR Housing Scheme in AP Launch Date
YS Jagan Mohan Reddy Government is AP is all set to launch most prestigious scheme – YSR Housing Scheme (Distribution of House Sites). In this scheme, govt. will provide houses for the shelter-less families in the state of Andhra Pradesh. The scheme is set to launch on 8th August 2020, birth anniversary of late CM YS Rajasekhar Reddy.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Beneficiaries List
The list of beneficiaries of YSR House Sites scheme is available with Grama Sachivalayam / Ward Sachivalayam offices at the village and urban levels respectiely. The screening of the beneficiaries is already completed by the authorities. For more details, visit the official link https://apgovhousing.apcfss.in/index.jsp
The already running PM Awas Yojana – Urban Component has been allocated the most amount to boost housing sector while the YSR Urban Housing Scheme has been allocated the lowest amount as it is a new one. This allocation for 2 new housing schemes will be more in the upcoming years.
AP Budget 2019-2020 – YSR Rythu Bharosa Yojana
The Andhra Pradesh Budget 2019-2020 has allocated Rs. 8,750 crore for YSR Rytu Bharosa scheme. This AP govt. welfare scheme will benefit around 64.06 lakh farmers which also includes 15.36 lakh tenant farmers. AP Budget 2019-20 allocated an amount of Rs. 15,000 crore for the welfare and development of Scheduled Castes (SCs). Moreover, Rs. 4,988 crore has been allocated for development of scheduled tribes (STs).
Amma Vodi | Free Power Supply Sccheme | YSR-PMFBY in AP Budget
The state govt. has allocated a sum of Rs. 4,560 crore for YSR Nine Hours Free Power Supply. Market Stabilisation Fund has been allocated Rs. 3,000 crore. The Jagan Anna Amma Vodi Scheme has been allocated Rs. 6,456 crore. For infrastructure development in schools, allocation is of Rs. 1,500 crore while for Natural Calamities Fund is Rs. 2,002 crore and YSR-PM Fasal Bima Yojana is Rs. 1,163 crore.
For the AP mid-day meal scheme, govt. has allotted Rs. 1,077 crore. Accordingly, a sum of Rs. 1,500 crore has been earmarked for infrastructure development in hospitals. To provide subsidized rice under the public distribution system, a sum of Rs. 3,000 crore is allocated. For the development of the capital city of Amaravati, the state government has proposed to allocate Rs. 500 crore in the Budget.
The estimated revenue deficit of AP Budget 2019-20 is about Rs. 1,778 crore while the fiscal deficit is estimated at Rs. 35,260 crore.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.aninews.in/news/national/general-news/andhra-pradesh-jaganmohan-governments-first-budget-focuses-on-housing-agriculture20190712165115/
SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh govt. govt. has launched launch YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme on 9 July 2019 with an outlay of Rs. 1576 crore. The state govt. had already issued an order to enhance the social security pension for elderly, disabled, kidney patients & others. Now monthly pension for elderly, widows, weavers, toddy tappers, fishermen, single women, traditional cobblers and people living with HIV has been enhanced to Rs. 2,250 from the current Rs. 2,000. People can download the YSR Pension Kanuka application form PDF or apply online for pension scheme in AP at a later stage.
Within few hours of taking oath as the CM of Andhra Pradesh, Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has signed the YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme file. The previous NTR Bharosa Scheme of the TDP party has now been replaced by YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme in AP. Now all the disabled people to get Rs. 3,000 p.m and dialysis patients to get Rs. 10,000 per month as pension..
AP YSR Pension Scheme would be launched on the birth anniversary of former CM Dr. YS Rajasekhar Reddy in district Kadapa. The enhanced amount of monthly pension for the elderly people has been effective from 1 June 2019.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme 2019 Apply Online / Application Form
Here are the links to download YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme online application form:-

Cobbler YSR Pension Kanuka Online Application Form
Dappu YSR Pension Kanuka Online Application Form
Disabled AP YSR Pension Kanuka Apply Online Form
Fishermen AP Pension Kanuka Apply Online Form
OAP YSR Pension Kanuka Application Form
Single Women AP YSR Pension Kanuka Apply Online Form
Toddy Tappers YSR Pension Kanuka Online Registration Form
Weavers AP YSR Pension Kanuka Application Form
Widow YSR Pension Kanuka Application Registration Form

AP YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme Features & Benefits
The important features and highlights of the new AP YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme 2019 are as follows:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


The pension amount under YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme would be enhanced by Rs. 250 per annum. In the fourth year, the pension amount would be Rs. 3,000 p.m as promised during elections.
As per the new order issued by the Panchayati Raj and Rural Development department, the age criteria for old age pension beneficiaries had also been reduced from 65 years to 60 years.
All the senior citizens, widows, weavers, toddy tappers, fishermen, single women, traditional cobblers and people living with HIV will now get Rs. 2,250.
As per the order, all the disabled people would be paid with a monthly pension amount of Rs. 3,000. Previously, people with 40% to 79% disability were paid Rs. 2,000 while those above 80% disability were receiving Rs. 3,000.
For chronic kidney patients undergoing dialysis, the pension amount has been increased from current Rs 3,500 to Rs 10,000.
AP YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme 2019

The online application process for YSR Pension Scheme in AP to begin at a later date. As soon as the YSR Pension Kanuka apply online process or the downloading of application form PDF process begins, we will update it here. 
This hike in the pension amount and reduction in the age criteria of old age pension scheme was a part of the ‘Navarathnalu’. This means nine key welfare schemes as promised by the YSR congress party in their manifesto. Now after a huge mandate, CM said that it is his responsibility to deliver promises made by him. 
A copy of this YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme is available at the internet and can be accessed using the link – goir.ap.gov.in 
NOW CM Jagan said that he would live upto the expectations of the people. The primary objective behind the launch of YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme is to ensure good governance that will make the nation stand and look upto Andhra Pradesh.
Also Read – Andhra Pradesh YSR Aarogyasri Scheme 2019
Also Read – AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme 2019 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP Grama / Ward Volunteer Recruitment Apply OnlineEligibility criteria for AP Grama Volunteer RecruitmentAP Ward Volunteer Recruitment Registration TimelinesMotive of AP Village Volunteers SchemeAP Grama / Ward Volunteers Recruitment Reservation criteria
Andhra Pradesh govt. is inviting AP Gram Volunteer Recruitment 2019 online application form at gramavolunteer.ap.gov.in. AP Ward Volunteers have to deliver welfare schemes at the doorstep of all eligible beneficiaries in villages. The state govt. has released AP Grama / Ward Volunteer Recruitment notification for registration of candidates on 24 June 2019. Interested people can apply online to become grama volunteers. 
AP Grama / Ward Volunteer Apply Online link is now functional and the online registration lines are open b/w 23 June to 5 July. After scrutiny, interviews would be held b/w 11 July to 25 July 2019. All the volunteers will be positioned on 15 August when the village volunteers scheme will be launched officially.
After taking oath as CM on 30 May 2019, YS Jagan Mohan Reddy announced to create 4 lakh new village volunteers jobs. All the selected Grama / Ward volunteers will get honorarium of Rs. 5,000 per month. AP govt. will entrust them with the task of door delivery of the government welfare schemes.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Grama / Ward Volunteer Recruitment Apply Online
Here is the complete procedure to apply online for AP Grama / Ward Volunteer Recruitment:-

Firstly visit the official website at gramavolunteer.ap.gov.in
At the homepage, click at the “Apply Now” link as shown below:-
Apply AP Grama / Ward Volunteer Recruitment Online
Grama / Ward Volunteers Registration are open now, firstly check eligibility for AP Grama / Ward Volunteer Registration as shown below:-
Eligibility AP Grama Ward Volunteer Registration
Here candidates can enter their place, date of birth and qualification to check whether they are eligible for Gram / Ward Volunteer Recruitment in Andhra Pradesh. Then candidates can proceed to make AP Gram / Ward Volunteer Recruitment Registration & login using their Aadhaar card number as shown below:-
AP Grama Ward Volunteer Registration Login Aadhar
Here candidates can enter their Aadhar card number and get OTP at their registered mobile number. After successful validation of OTP, the online application form for AP Grama / Ward Volunteer Recruitment will appear as shown below:-
AP Grama Ward Volunteer Online Application Form
Here candidates can enter all their details accurately (while some are autofilled) to complete the application process.

Eligibility criteria for AP Grama Volunteer Recruitment
All the candidates must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to become eligible for AP Grama Volunteer Recruitment:-
— The candidates must be a resident of Andhra Pradesh.
— Candidate must belong to the village or gram panchayat for which he / she is applying online.
— The educational qualification for the post is Intermediate or equivalent in plain areas. However, in agency or tribal areas, the minimum education qualification is 10th class.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Ward Volunteer Recruitment Registration Timelines
The dates for registration and complete schedule for AP Grama / Village Volunteers Recruitment is as follows:-


AP Grama or Ward Volunteer Registration / Application Form Filling
23 June to 5 July 2019


Interviews of Gram / Ward Volunteers after scrutiny
11 July to 25 July 2019


Sending of Intimation Letters
1 August 2019


Induction and Training of Gram / Ward Volunteers
5 Aug to 10 August 2019


Positioning of AP Grama / Ward Volunteers
15 August 2019


Motive of AP Village Volunteers Scheme
AP Village Volunteers Scheme would be launched to streamline the delivery system in the Andhra Pradesh state. This will improve the living standards of people through Navaratnalu as the core theme of governance. This program will ensure foolproof implementation of all the state government schemes and will also ensure timely and transparent services and eliminate corruption at all levels of administration.
Village volunteers will identify the problems being faced by people in their jurisdiction, the same will be taken to the notice of gram panchayat authorities and get them resolved.
AP Grama / Ward Volunteers Recruitment Reservation criteria
All the rules of reservation for filling up of Grama / Ward Volunteer posts would be followed as given below:-

50% of Village Volunteers posts in each category may be allotted for women.
Youth who attained the age of 18 (as on 30 June 30 2019) and not exceeding 35 years, are eligible to apply.

All the eligible candidates for AP Grama / Ward Volunteer Recruitment Program will be called for interview by the Selection Committee consisting of MPDO / Tahsildar / EO (PR&RD). Then a 2 day induction training will be given to selected volunteers at mandal level.
Then a committee consisting of MPDO / Tahsildar / EO (PR&RD) will map the territorial units (1 volunteer for every 50 households). Panchayat secretary at village level and MPDO at mandal level will monitor the performance of village volunteers regularly. Performance appraisal of volunteers at the district level will be done by the Collector.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: gramavolunteer.ap.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF

आंध्र प्रदेश सूर्य शक्ति योजना के तहत पंजीकरण अब मी सेवा केंद्रों पर उपलब्ध हैं, सब्सिडी पर सोलर पैनल लगवाने के लिए करें आवेदन, 60,000 रुपये के सोलर पेनल्स अब मात्र 10,000 रुपये मेंSouthern Power Distribution Company Limited (SPDCL) in Andhra Pradesh has decided to extend Surya Shakti Scheme to Guntur City. Now govt. would setup Rooftop Solar Panels on Subsidy for homes in AP. All the domestic consumers of 1A and 1B category can now install rooftop PV (photovoltaic) systems for AP Surya Sakthi Yojana for household purposes. People can now make AP Surya Shakti Scheme Registration at meeseva centers to avail benefits. 
The consumers can sell the surplus power generated by subsidized solar power units to the electricity department after meeting their own demands. Each Subsidized Rooftop Solar Panel Unit which costs around Rs. 60,000 would be provided @ just Rs. 10,000 to individual consumers. 
To avail the benefits of Rooftop Solar Panels on Subsidy, candidates can make AP Surya Shakti Scheme registration before the last date to apply online or offline. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Surya Shakti Scheme Registration for Rooftop Solar Panel Subsidy
All the individual consumers can install rooftop solar panel units, but for this AP Surya Shakti Scheme Registration is required. People can now go to the nearest Mee Seva Centers and have to register their name. The application fees for name inclusion in Rooftop Solar Panel Subsidy Scheme in AP is Rs. 50. All the solar units which comes at cost of around Rs. 60,000 in open market would be provided at subsidized rate of just Rs. 10,000.
Eligibility to Apply for Rooftop Solar Panel Subsidy Scheme in AP
In order to install the above mentioned subsidized solar units, consumers need to provide 100 square feet shadow-free area on the rooftop of their buildings. After registration at Mee Seva center and payment of application fees, feasibility report is also required. The rooftop solar panels unit will be granted only after a physical inspection and submission of the feasibility report. APSPDCL will also take care of the maintenance of PV (photovoltaic) units for 5 years free of cost.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The rooftop solar panels on subsidy will only be provided to 1 KW capacity users. Moreover, the solar unit would not be exclusively granted for water motors or penthouses. Discom has already entered into an MoU with 3 companies to set up rooftop solar units in select cities of Andhra Pradesh including Guntur city. The name of 3 companies are – Rays Power Experts Private Limited Rajasthan, Junna Solar Systems Private Limited Hyderabad and Sun Sine Solutions Private Limited Chennai.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/andhra-pradesh/2019/jun/17/andhra-pradesh-houses-can-now-avail-rooftop-solar-units-1991268.html
SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

YSR Cheyutha Scheme 2020YSR Cheyutha Scheme 2020 BudgetHow to Apply for YSR Cheyutha Scheme?YSR Cheyutha Scheme 2020 EligibilityRequired Documents for YSR Cheyutha SchemeYSR Cheyutha Scheme 2020 Beneficiary ListOther Benefits of YSR Cheyutha SchemeYSR Cheyutha Scheme 2020 – FAQ’sYSR Navaratnalu – Other Schemes
YSR Cheyutha Scheme or “Jagananna Cheyutha” is a new scheme launched by the Andhar Pradesh Government on order to provide financial assistance to women in the state. The Andhra Pradesh govt. announced some welfare schemes in June 2019 and one of those schemes was a women welfare scheme named YSR Cheyutha Scheme 2020. Through this scheme, AP govt. intends to support all women from SC, ST, BC and minority communities.
YSR Cheyutha Scheme 2020
Under YSR Cheyutha Scheme 2020, the state govt. will provide Rs. 75,000 to all the women belonging to the SC / ST / BC / Minority community over a period of 4 years. Hence the annual sum of Rs. 18,750 per annum will be provided as the financial assistance to all the eligible women in the state. The scheme is expected to benefit about 3 Lakh women across the state through this scheme.
All the poor women who are deprived of various basic facilities can utilize the money given under YSR Cheyutha Scheme and lead a life of dignity and honour. To avail the benefits of AP YSR Cheyutha Yojana, women must be above 45 years of age while the maximum age is 60 years.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

YSR Cheyutha Scheme 2020 Budget
For the success of YSR Cheyutha Scheme, the state government would spent a total of Rs. 17000 Crore rupees over a period of 4 years. The Cheyutha Scheme 2020 aims at providing better life to the deprived women in teh state by providing them monthly financial assistance.
The YSR Cheyutha Scheme will empower socio-economically deprived women, by ushering them into entrepreneurship & helping them build strong, rewarding businesses. The state government has already transferred first financial assistance of Rs. 18,750 accounts of each of 23L beneficiaries.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Hon’ble CM @ysjagan has launched #YSRCheyutha to empower socio-economically deprived women, by ushering them into entrepreneurship & helping them build strong, rewarding businesses. Financial assistance of Rs 18,750 has been transferred into the accounts of 23L beneficiaries. pic.twitter.com/rj4LJPwPL3— CMO Andhra Pradesh (@AndhraPradeshCM) August 12, 2020

CM Jagan promises all the women to realize the dream of Y.S.Rajasekhara Reddy to turn “women into lakhiers” under YSR Cheyutha Scheme in Andhra Pradesh. The amount of Rs. 75,000 (for 4 years) would be released in 4 equal installments through the respective corporations. All the eligible women under the YSR Cheyutha Scheme would be provided with pension amount starting from the age of 45 itself.
How to Apply for YSR Cheyutha Scheme?
The eligible women who belong to the below-mentioned categories can apply to this scheme through the offline mode only. 
The applicants need to produce the documents like Caste Certificate, Aadhaar Card, Income Certificate, Domicile Certificate, Bank Account Pass Book Details, Age Proof, Mobile Number and Passport-sized Photograph before applying for the scheme.Graama Volunteer of the assigned geographical area will collect all the documents and scrutinizes all the documents for the eligibility criteria.Graama Sachivalayam personnel will create the final list of beneficiaries after re-verification once all the eligible applicants are sorted out.
NOTE: Graama Sachivaalayam can be contacted by the applicants if any information is required about the scheme.
There is no notification regarding the online applications for YSR Cheyutha Scheme by the state government. As soon as the details about YSR Cheyutha Scheme 2020 online applications / portal is out, we will update here.
YSR Cheyutha Scheme 2020 Eligibility
The applicants willing to take the benefits of YSR Cheyutha Scheme 2020 must meet the eligibility criteria set by the state government. The following is the basic eligibility criteria of the scheme:
The age of the women must be between 45 yrs – 60 yearsThe women must belong to the deprived sections of the society i.e from either SC, ST, BC or minority community.The applicant women must be the resident of Andhra Pradesh.Total land holding should not be more than 3 Acres of WetLand or 10 Acres of Dry LandNo person in the family should be a government employeeThe applicant family shouldn’t have four-wheeler (Taxi, Auto, and Tractor are exempted from this)Monthly Power Consumption of the applicant should be less than 300 Units per month Latest Announcement on YSR Cheyutha Scheme 2020
Required Documents for YSR Cheyutha Scheme
Following is the list of documents which will be required for the YSR Cheyutha Scheme
Address proof – The proof of address will be required for filling the application form for the scheme.Caste Certificate – Since the scheme beneficiaries are the minorities such as SC/ST, they will have to produce a cast certificate in order to apply for YSR Cheyutha scheme.Age proof – Age proof should be attached with the application form.Aadhar card – This is a mandatory document for consideration under the scheme.Bank account details – Bank account number, IFSC, bank name and location will be required for transferring the money into the bank accounts.Photograph – A photograph of applicant women to be attached with the application form.Domicile certificate – This document will be required as a proof of Andhra Pradesh as the permanent residence of applicant.Mobile number – Will be required for updates related to scheme.
YSR Cheyutha Scheme 2020 Beneficiary List
There are about 23 Lakh women in the state who are in the list of beneficiaries of YSR Cheyutha Scheme 2020, but the state government has not released any beneficiary list or Cheyutha Scheme so far. However, the beneficiary list may soon be released to make the scheme more transparent and beneficiaries can check their status.
Other Benefits of YSR Cheyutha Scheme
8 lakh widows and single women in the age group between 45 and 60 years, who are already receiving monthly social pensions, would also be able to take the benefits of YSR Cheyutha. “The annual amount received by women eligible for pension is Rs. 27,000 at the rate of Rs  2,250 per month. In addition to it, they would receive Rs. 18,750 per annum under YSR Cheyutha. The total amount comes to Rs  45,750 per annum.
Women beneficiaries of the scheme are free to use the amount received anywhere / anyhow they wish to.
YSR Cheyutha Scheme 2020 – FAQ’s



✔️ What is YSR Cheyutha Scheme
YSR Cheyutha is a financial assistance scheme for women belonging to SC / ST / BC or Minority community in Andhra Pradesh



✔️ How to Apply for YSR Cheyutha Scheme
Beneficiaries can apply for YSR Cheyutha scheme at Graama Sachivaalayam.



✔️ What is the financial assistance amount under the cheyutha scheme
The state government would provide a financial amount of 18,740 to eligible women beneficiaries for 4 years



✔️ Who is eligible for YSR Cheyutha Scheme 
Andhra Pradesh resident women belonging to SC / ST / BC or Minority community and between the age of 45 years to 60 years are eligible under the scheme.



✔️ What is the launch date of YSR Cheyutha Scheme
YSR Cheyutha Scheme was launched on 12th August by Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh




YSR Navaratnalu – Other Schemes
Andhra Pradesh YSRCP govt. headed by CM Jagan has also started various other schemes under YSR Navaratnalu for state residents which are as follows:
1. YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme – This scheme for farmers in AP would launch on 15 October 2019. All the farmers to get Rs. 12,500 per annum under this investment support scheme.2. YSR Arogyasri Scheme – Universal Health coverage to all lower and middle class families whose annual income is less than Rs. 5 lakh. All the expenses above Rs. 1,000 to be borne by the AP state govt.3. YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme – Old Age Pension (OAP), Widow, Weavers, Toddy Tappers, Fishermen, Single women, PLHIV (Art pensions), traditional cobblers pension amount raised to Rs. 2250. Disability pension is now Rs. 3,000. CKDU / Dialysis pension raised to Rs. 10,000 and the age of old age pensioners is reduced from 65 to 60 years.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

आंध्र प्रदेश वोटर लिस्ट 2020 (PDF) अब सीईओ की आधिकारिक वेबसाइट ceoandhra.nic.in पर उपलब्ध है, नयी मतदाता सूची में अपना नाम अपनी जानकारी या EPIC नंबर के आधार पर खोजें और वोटर ID कार्ड डाउनलोड करें

Table of Contents

How to Check Voter List in AP 2020CEO Andhra Pradesh Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Rolls) DownloadAP Voter List Name Search 2020 & Download Voter ID CardAP CEO Voters List 2020 E-Registration
Election Commission of India had released the CEO Andhra Pradesh Voter List 2019 at ceoandhra.nic.in. In this post, we will tell you the procedure on how to check voter list in AP 2020. Voting for Lok Sabha Elections in Andhra Pradesh was done on 25 seats on 11th April 2019. People can now download PDF Electoral Rolls and can perform AP Voter List Name Search 2020 manually in the downloaded voters list with photo. The name of voter must appear in the AP Voters List 2019-2020 in order to caste their important vote in the upcoming Lok Sabha & state elections. 
ECI has recently announced the Lok Sabha election dates 2019 and model code of conduct is applicable. As elections are inching closer, citizens can Download AP Voter ID Card and check their name in the AP CEO Voter List 2020 to avoid any last time rush at the polling stations. 
Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Andhra Pradesh is responsible for the successful conduct of elections across the state. So, CEO publishes and update AP voter list (electoral roll) prior to elections. Now people can find their name in the CEO Voters List 2020 and can Download Andhra Pradesh Voter ID Card before casting their vote.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

How to Check Voter List in AP 2020
CEO department is regularly updating its voters database. Now people can check their name in the district-wise voter list along with their photo. People can download the entire PDF file of Electoral Roll (CEO Voter List) and perform manual searching in the Voter List 2020. Now citizens can adopt a hassle free process and know the process of how to check name in voter list 2020.
CEO Andhra Pradesh Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Rolls) Download
Below is the complete procedure for process of checking voter list in Andhra Pradesh. People can download Andhra Pradesh PDF Electoral Roll to check name in the voter list manually:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Firstly visit the official website of Chief Electoral Officer of Andhra Pradesh at ceoandhra.nic.in
At the homepage, scroll over the “PDF Electoral Rolls” option and click at the “Assembly Constituency” or directly click at AP Electoral Rolls (District Wise)
Afterwards, the page to check voter list in Andhra Pradesh 2020 is as follows:-
Check Voter List AP 2020
Here candidates can enter the district, select assembly constituency and then click at the “Get Polling Stations“. Then the Andhra Pradesh polling station name and location along with the links to download mother rolls and supplementary voters list will appear as shown below:-
CEO Andhra Pradesh Voter List Polling Station Wise
Now click at the “Mother Roll” option in the desired language & then perform verification to open the CEO Voters List 2020 as shown below:-
AP Voter ID Card Download CEO Voters List 2020
All the citizens can perform AP voter list name search manually in the downloaded AP CEO Voter list 2020.

AP Voter List Name Search 2020 & Download Voter ID Card
Below is the complete procedure to make AP Voter List Name Search 2020 through online mode and download AP Voter ID Card:-

Visit the same official website at ceoandhra.nic.in
At the homepage, scroll over “Search Your Name” link in the header and then click at the “Assembly Constituency” link.
This will redirect the citizens to the https://electoralsearch.in/ link and will open the page as shown below:-
AP Voter List Name Search 2020
Here candidates can enter the details and find their name online which will assist them in downloading their AP Voter ID Card Online.

AP CEO Voters List 2020 E-Registration
The E-Registration process has already been started to include your name in the AP CEO Voters List. People can now directly click the link given below to make e-registration for AP CEO Voters List 2020:-
AP Voters List 2020 Online Registration
Here candidates can fill the Form 6 at the National Voters Service Portal to include their name in the Voters List to caste their important vote for the state and Lok Sabha elections.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: www.nvsp.in, ceoandhra.nic.in
SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP Annadatha Sukhibhava Scheme Beneficiary List 20191. AP Annadata Sukhibhava Scheme Village Wise ListAP Annadatha Sukhibhava Payment StatusAP Annadatha Sukhibhava Yojana Login With Aadhaar NumberDownload Annadata Sukhibhava Mobile AppAP Annadatha Sukhibhava Scheme 2019 Brief Summary
Andhra Pradesh govt. is going to release Annadata Sukhibhava Scheme 2019 list of beneficiary farmers at annadathasukhibhava.ap.gov.in. AP Annadatha Subkibhava Scheme Beneficiary List of first phase would remain available for download in village wise and mandal wise manner. Under the Annadata Sukhibhava Scheme in Andhra Pradesh, govt. will provide Rs. 9000 to those farmers who have agricultural land upto 5 acre in addition to Rs. 6,000 under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana.
AP govt. has also committed to provide Rs. 10000 to those farmers who have more than 5 acre agricultural land. AP Annadatha Sukhibhava Scheme list of beneficiaries is going to be released by the state govt. very soon. To successfully implement this scheme for farmers betterment, the state govt. has allocated Rs. 5,000 crore in AP Budget 2019-20.
Annadata Sukhi Bhava is a blessing for farmers which is going to provide economic support to farmers. Real Time Governance Society (RTGS) will prepare the Annadata Sukhibhava Scheme list of beneficiaries 2019. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Annadatha Sukhibhava Scheme Beneficiary List 2019
Andhra Pradesh govt. has given the responsibility to Real Time Governance Society (RTGS) to prepare Annadatha Sukhibhava Scheme List village wise & mandal wise in upcoming 15 days. As per the official reports, RTGS has already completed approx. 85% of farmers list and on completion of AP Annadata Sukhibhava Beneficiary List, it will provide village wise list to the government. 
1. AP Annadata Sukhibhava Scheme Village Wise List
Below is the complete procedure to find name in the village wise list:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


The beneficiary report is available at official website annadathasukhibhava.ap.gov.in.
At the homepage, click at the “District Name” in the district wise Annadata Sukhibhava Scheme list of beneficiaries as shown below:-
AP Annadata Sukhibhava Beneficiary List District Wise
Here candidates can click at the district name, then at the name of mandal, then at the name of village and finally at the numbers shown in the list.
This would open the Annadatha Sukhibhava Scheme 2019 Village List.

The complete web user manual is available to download through the link given below:-
Annadatha Sukhibhava Scheme Web User Manual
The total number of households identified for payment are 48,89,276. The state govt. has initiated payment for 48,89,276 and payment is already successful for 12,98,792 households. Payment is under process for 35,90,484 households.
AP Annadatha Sukhibhava Payment Status
All the farmers can check their payment status through the link given below:-
http://annadathasukhibhava.ap.gov.in/ADSBAPP/DistrictKisan/SanctionedData
Annadata Sukhibhava Scheme list of the beneficiary farmers is going to include their name, agricultural land details and all personal & bank account details. The 1st installment of Annadata Sukhibhava Scheme 2019 would be transferred through Direct Transfer method in beneficiaries bank account by March-end. This is going to be done after identification of farmers and the farmers list is going to be prepared in next 15 days.
AP Annadatha Sukhibhava Yojana Login With Aadhaar Number
Farmer can make login using their Aadhaar Number through the link given below:-

http://annadathasukhibhava.ap.gov.in/ADSBAPP/kisan/Login
The Annadata Sukhibhava Scheme login page will appear as shown below:-
AP Annadatha Sukhibhava Scheme Login
Here candidates can enter their Aadhaar number and can make login.

Download Annadata Sukhibhava Mobile App
The AP Annadatha Sukhibhava mobile app is available to download through the link below:-
Annadata Sukhibhava Mobile App Download
The mobile app user manual is available to download through the link given below:-
AP Annadata Sukhibhava Mobile App User Manual
As per the official data, the total beneficiaries are 51,60,557, total not available accounts are 13,44,458, accounts updated are 1,590 and accounts need to update are 13,42,868. After completion of account updating process, Andhra Pradesh govt. will release Annadatha Sukhibhava Scheme list of beneficiaries. 
AP Annadatha Sukhibhava Scheme 2019 Brief Summary
The brief summary of AP Annadata Sukhibhava Scheme are as follows:- 


Scheme Name
Annadata Sukhibhava Scheme


Launched by
CM N. Chandrababu Naidu


Department
Farmer welfare department


Total Beneficiaries
54 Lakh farmers


First beneficiary list
In coming 15 days or last of February 2019


Benefits of scheme
Financial support of Rs. 9000 to Rs. 10000


Category
Village, Block & Mandal Wise


Official website
http://annadathasukhibhava.ap.gov.in/ADSBAPP/kisan/index


Prepared By
Real Time Governance Society (RTGS)


1st Installment
Till March end


Cost of Scheme
Rs. 7,000 crore


The Annadata Sukhibhava Scheme list would be released in village wise manner after 15 days. As soon as the list is released by the AP government, we will update it here. Till date, only the report of beneficiaries is available as per their bank account status.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: annadathasukhibhava.ap.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP Youth For Andhra Online RegistrationAP Youth Ambassador Program 2019 Eligibility & Important PointsAP Youth For Andhra Ambassador Program Benefits
Andhra Pradesh govt. invites online registration forms for “Youth For Andhra” program at youth4ap.ncbn.in. AP Youth Ambassador Program aims at understanding and validating the grass root implementation of policies and development work taking place. All the youths of Andhra between 18 to 35 years of age can apply online and make AP Youth For Andhra Online Registration for position of Youth Ambassador. The youths of the state would now serve as an ambassador of change. 
AP Youth For Andhra Program 2019 would be an immense learning experience as special sessions shall be taken by prominent bureaucrats and administrators. All the Ambassadors will get deeper understanding of the functioning and policies of Andhra Pradesh government.
The experience certificate from the Andhra Pradesh govt. would also give the youths an edge in applying for jobs.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Youth For Andhra Online Registration
Below is the complete procedure to apply online for Youth For Andhra program:-

Firstly visit the official website at youth4ap.ncbn.in
At the homepage, click at the “Apply Now” link present in the header or directly click this link
The Youth For Andhra Registration Form will appear as follows:-
Youth For Andhra Registration Form
Here candidates can enter all the necessary details and click at the “Submit” button to complete the registration process.

After completion of the registration process of Youth For Andhra Program, candidates can become Youth Ambassador.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Youth Ambassador Program 2019 Eligibility & Important Points
The candidates must be a resident of Andhra Pradesh and must lie in the age group of 18 to 35 years. Moreover, candidates can be passionate about contributing to the community. The important features and highlights of this AP Youth Ambassador Program are as follows:-

The complete duration of Youth For Andhra program will be 5 to 7 weeks.
Each week, the participants will be provided with a module containing info. about various developmental and welfare initiatives by the government.
By utilizing these modules, participants are expected to create content either written or video or graphical.
The content which is generated by the participants would be judged on the basis of quality and quantity.
A district-wise leader board would be kept to keep track of top performing participants.

AP Youth For Andhra Ambassador Program Benefits
All the top 100 performing participants will get a chance to interact with the honourable CM Nara Chandrababu Naidu. The state govt. will provide a certificate of appreciation from the govt. of AP which would be a great addition for resume of youth. 

‘Youth for Andhra’, a powerful Youth Ambassador Program by AP govt will empower you to be the agent of change. In a time where suppressing the voice of people has become a norm, we are listening. Join us and be a part of progress. #YouthForAndhra pic.twitter.com/QlRvAEXbuM
— N Chandrababu Naidu (@ncbn) February 14, 2019

AP govt. will provide an excellent opportunity to observe the functioning of govt. closely. Youths will get interaction sessions with prominent bureaucrats and administrators like district collectors and HoDs. This Youth Ambassador Program will have a pride of having positive impact on the community as the content provided by them would be used to shape the future policies and execution plans. For more details, visit the official website at https://youth4ap.ncbn.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

आंध्र प्रदेश आरोग्यश्री योजना 2020 के अंतर्गत 1,000 रुपये से अधिक इलाज पर होने वाला खर्चा (ढाई लाख तक) सरकार देगी, जाने कौन होंगे लाभार्थी और कैसे ले इस स्वास्थय योजना का लाभ

Table of Contents

AP Dr. YSR Aarogyasri Scheme 2020AP YSR Aarogyasri Scheme BeneficiariesAP Dr. YSR Aarogyasri Health Card DownloadInclusion of COVID-19 Treatment in Dr. YSR Aarogyasri Scheme
Andhra Pradesh CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy had taken the key decision over Health and Medical department during review meeting at Tadepalli Camp office on 3 June 2019. AP CM YS Jagan had ordered officials to change the name of NTR Vaidya Seva Yojana as Dr. YSR Aarogyasri Scheme 2020. This scheme is going to provide universal health coverage to lower and middle class people & its official website is ysraarogyasri.ap.gov.in. Now in the wake of Coronavirus pandemic, the state govt. has decided to cover COVID-19 treatment under this health scheme. 
In the review meeting headed by CM himself, discussions on various reforms in the healthcare policies was held. Moreover, the primary aim is to enquire about the facilities and infrastructure at various govt. hospitals across the state. Under YSR Aarogyasri Scheme in AP, the treatment money for the illness above 1 thousand would be given by the government at any hospital and of any amount. Download AP YSR Aarogyasri Scheme New Application Form online at navasakam.ap.gov.in
When YS Rajasekhara Reddy was the CM of Andhra Pradesh, the medical services were provided in the name of the Rajiv Aarogyasri scheme. In 2014, the then TDP government has changed this name to NTR Vaidya Seva which is now again renamed as YSR Aarogyasri Scheme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Dr. YSR Aarogyasri Scheme 2020
After the landslide victory in 2019 assembly elections in Andhra Pradesh, the YSRCP government has decided to provide medical services to people under Dr. YSR Aarogyasri scheme 2019-2020. The important features and highlights of this new YSR Arogyasiri scheme are as follows:-

AP YSR Aarogyasri Scheme to provide universal health coverage to all the lower and middle class families. The official website is ysraarogyasri.ap.gov.in
The benefits under YSR Arogyasiri Scheme are absolutely free. The universal health card under AP YSR Aarogyasri Scheme would remain applicable for any medical expense over Rs. 1,000.
The YSR Aarogyasri Scheme will provide coverage up to 2.50 lakhs for each family per year.
CM Jagan Mohan Reddy will personally monitor and take reports on the implementation of Universal Health Coverage scheme in AP.
Any individual whose annual income is less than Rs. 5 lakh can avail benefits of Dr. YSR Arogyasri Scheme. The government has said 2,000 diseases would be covered and scheme will come into action on 1 April 2020.
People can download YSR Arogysri Health Card online application performa at navasakam.ap.gov.in or directly through the link below
Direct Link – http://navasakam.ap.gov.in/downloads/new_application_for_health_card.pdf
The new Application Form for Dr. YSR Aarogyasri Health Card will appear as shown below:-
AP YSR Arogyasri Health Card Application Form Online

The newly elected CM has suggested officers to take necessary measures to reduce the private partnership in the medical field. The scheme can be availed at hospitals in Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai from November as opposed to the previous norm in which only 150 hospitals in the State were brought under AP YSR Arogyasri Scheme. The govt. is likely to set up Y.S.R. canteens in government hospitals to serve the needs of the patients. CM Jagan Reddy asserted that the Cancer also is included under Y.S.R. Arogyasri. The tenders will be called soon to revamp 5000 health centres for the scheme under Nadu-Nedu program.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP YSR Aarogyasri Scheme Beneficiaries
— All the BPL families identified by BPL ration card issued by Civil Supplies Department are eligible.
— All the people whose photo and name appear on Health Card / BPL (White, Annapurna and Anthyodaya Anna Yojana, RAP and TAP) ration card and suffering from identified diseases are eligible.
— Moreover, people whose annual income is less than Rs. 5 lakh from any caste is eligible.
Serious diseases affecting Heart, Kidney, Cancer, Brain, Burns and accident cases are covered under YSR Arogyasri Scheme. A total of 1040 Surgeries / Therapies in 31 systems are covered under the Dr. YSR Arogysiri Scheme. The list of these Surgeries / Therapies is available with PHC Doctors and Network Hospitals.
In addition to this, the main focus is to improve the medical services provided at the various government hospitals. People who are living in remote areas would also be eligible for the YSR Aarogyasri Scheme 2020 in Andhra Pradesh.
AP Dr. YSR Aarogyasri Health Card Download
The government issues an Aarogyasri card and the beneficiary can use it at government and private hospitals to obtain services free of cost. In order to facilitate the effective implementation of the scheme, the State Government set up the Aarogyasri Health Care Trust under the chairmanship of the Chief Minister. The trust is administered by a Chief Executive Officer who would be an IAS officer.
Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy announced on 10 October 2019 that the AP govt. would bring the treatment of 2,000 types of diseases and procedures under Aarogyasri Scheme from April 2020 on a pilot basis in West Godavari district.
Also Read – YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme Andhra Pradesh
Also Read – YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme Andhra Pradesh
Inclusion of COVID-19 Treatment in Dr. YSR Aarogyasri Scheme
AP govt. on 6 April 2020 has issued directives covering the Coronavirus disease in Aarogya Sri Scheme. AP govt. has issued notification stating that COVID-19 victims should be admitted to private hospitals for treatment. The state govt. has set out cost package for medical treatment of Covid-19. As per the notification, fees for coronavirus treatment is stipulated in b/w Rs. 16,000 to max. of Rs. 2.16 lakh. Check M1 (Critical Care), M8 (Pulmonology), M4 (Paediatric) procedures identified for management of COVID-19 cases through the link below:-
http://www.ysraarogyasri.ap.gov.in/documents/10181/0/COVID19/2c8962c3-93cc-4bc9-a797-1e410ad7ad4f 
It is important to note that Corona cases would only be admitted to private hospitals under the supervision of govt. officials who will monitor medical procedures on timely basis. There are 37 positive cases reported so far with 18 new cases in Kurnool, 8 in Nellore, 5 in West Godavari, 4 in Kadapa, one each in Krisha and Prakasam districts respectively.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.thehansindia.com/andhra-pradesh/cm-ys-jagans-decision-on-aarogyasri-scheme-534685
SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh govt. in its latest budget for FY 2019-2020 has doubled the unemployment allowance amount under Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam Scheme. Now all the youths who have made AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestam Online Registration & Login will get an enhanced amount of Rs. 2,000 per month. Previously, govt. was providing Rs. 1,000 per month under AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme. 
This announcement to double the unemployment allowance amount under Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme was made by Finance Minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu on 5 February 2019 here in the state assembly. 
All those unemployed youths who have still not made online registrations for AP Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam Scheme can apply online at yuvanestham.ap.gov.in before 25 February 2019. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham – Rs. 2,000 Unemployment Allowance
The state govt. of Andhra Pradesh is working hard to ensure the welfare of all educated personnels in the state. So for the first time, the state govt. has instituted a Youth Policy and has also doubled the unemployment allowance amount under AP Mukhymantri Yuvanestham Scheme. Now people will get Rs. 2,000 per month dole under the flagship Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam Scheme instead of the previous amount of Rs. 1,000 per month.
AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme online registration are open and jobless candidates can apply online at the official Yuva Nestam portal at yuvanestham.ap.gov.in. AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham online registrations to close on 25 February 2019. Till date, around 12, 05,954 candidates have applied online for Yuva Nestam unemployment allowance and the state govt. has already sanctioned amount for 4,46,755 candidates.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

All the youths in Andhra Pradesh will now get Rs. 2,000 per month allowance in AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme to pursue skill development courses and reduce the burden on the family of unemployed youth.
AP Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam Eligibility Criteria & Documents List
The complete eligibility criteria and documents list for AP Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam can be seen through the link given below:-
yuvanestham.ap.gov.in
This link will open the homepage of the official Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Portal where other information can also be accessed. This includes making Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham online registration, checking updated data of students enrolled & applied, FAQ’s & other details. Furthermore, candidates can also Download Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Mobile App to access complete details of Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme at their smartphones. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh govt. has announced Annadata Sukhibhava Scheme 2019 for farmers in the AP state budget 2019-2020. The name “Annadata” signifies the farmer who donates the food and “Sukhi Bhava” meaning to stay happy. So, AP Annadata Sukhibhava Yojana means ‘Let the being who donated food must stay happy’. The AP state govt. has allocated Rs. 5,000 crore for the scheme. 
Finance Minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has announced AP Annadata Sukhibhava Scheme in his Vote on Account budget for FY 2019-20 to provide economic support to farmers.
Update – Check Annadata Sukhibhava Scheme 2019 beneficiary farmers list



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state govt. of Andhra Pradesh has also started various other measures for the welfare of farmers community.
AP Annadata Sukhibhava Scheme 2019
As per the announcement made in the Andhra Pradesh Budget 2019-20, the state govt. has decided to start Annadata Sukhibhava Scheme for small and marginal farmers. The total outlay to successfully implement Annadata Sukhi Bhava Yojana is Rs. 5,000 crore. The state of AP has also enhanced input subsidies for paddy, sugarcane, cotton and groundnut crops from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 15,000, for maize from Rs. 8,333 to Rs. 12,500, pulses and sunflower crops from Rs. 6,250 to Rs. 10,000. This newly launched AP Annadata Sukhibhava Scheme 2019 as well as enhanced input subsidies will benefit around 39.33 lakh farmers.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

To reduce the debt burden on farmers, the state govt. is already implementing the debt redemption scheme with an outlay of Rs. 24,000 crore. The state govt. has already release 3 installments out of the 5 installments under the debt waiver scheme. AP govt. has promised that the final 2 installments are also going to be credited into the farmers accounts shortly. For horticulture debt redemption, Rs. 5384 crore have been credited into the 2.23 loan accounts of the farmers.
For sustainable enhancement of farm incomes, govt. focuses on productivity enhancement by increasing micro-nutrient subsidy to 100%. This will strengthen extension services through Chandranna Rythu Kshetralu and Polam Pilusthondi programmes. The state govt. has also launched Zero Budget Natural Farming to boost farm incomes, promoting health and protect environment.
AP state govt. is also promoting mechanization and share mechanical equipment through uberization to reduce the cost of farming. The state govt. has also launched a program to distribute tractors and rotators with maximum subsidy of Rs. 2.5 lakh. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh govt. is going to provide Rs. 10,000 cash and one smartphone to women self help group (SHG) members under AP Pasupu Kumkuma Scheme 2019. This welfare scheme is for Women SHGs registered under Development of Women and Children in Rural Areas programme. Around 93 lakh women registered under DWCRA programme across the state would get benefited. 
AP state govt. would spend Rs. 9400 crore for the new scheme. This is a major welfare step towards women empowerment in the state and is announced by CM at “Pasupu Kumkuma” meetings held at Amaravati, Kadapa and Visakhapatnam on 25 January 2019. 
The state govt. is planning to buy around 1.4 crore smartphones for these women SHG members under DWCRA.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Pasupu Kumkuma Scheme – Rs. 10,000 Cash & Smartphones for Women
As per the announcement, each women who are a part of SHGs under DWRCA would get Rs. 10000 cash and one smartphone from the Andhra Pradesh government. The money for this scheme is going to be paid in 3 installments:-


Payment of Cheques
Duration
Amount


1st Installment
1st 3 days of February 2019
Rs. 2,500


2nd Installment
February end or March 2019 starting
Rs. 3,000


3rd Installment
April 2019
Rs. 4,000


CM said that the state govt. is completely focused on protecting the self respect of women. AP govt. currently doesn’t have enough money but will borrow money to help women. Around 93 lakh women to be benefited with this new scheme along with an outlay of Rs. 9,400 crore.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Since FY 2014, the state govt. has already spend Rs. 21,116 crore as money transfers to these women and interest waivers on loans of SHGs. Similar meetings are going to be organized in Kadapa and Vishakapatnam to introduce the new scheme. 

ప్రతి మహిళా ఓ పారిశ్రామికవేత్తగా తయారు కావాలన్నదే నా ఆకాంక్ష. అందుకే పసుపు-కుంకుమ పథకానికి శ్రీకారం చుట్టాం. గతంలో ఇచ్చినవి కాకుండా మరో మారు రూ.10 వేలు చొప్పున మొత్తం రూ.9400 కోట్లు డ్వాక్రా మహిళలలకు ఇస్తున్నాం. కోటి 40 లక్షల మందికి స్మార్ట్ ఫోన్లను అందజేస్తాం. pic.twitter.com/MwIwLKee8x
— N Chandrababu Naidu (@ncbn) January 25, 2019

CM also explained that the state govt. has nurtured DWCRA to ensure empowerment and self respect of women and involve them in implementation of various govt. welfare schemes. CM has also given credit for increasing natural farming to 8% in the state which is 0.6% at the national level and 0.3% at the world level.
The state govt. has announced 30% hike in salaries of Velugu staff (SERP employees), Rs. 10 lakh insurance cover, 10 day medical leave and promised to consider demand for regularisation of their services. The state govt. has also assured setting up of MSME parks in Assembly constituencies to encourage them to become entrepreneurs.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh government has decided to implement AP Rythu Raksha Scheme 2019 for small and marginal farmers. This scheme aims to provide input subsidy to farmers in Andhra Pradesh. The state govt. has proposed to directly credit the amount of Rs. 10,000 per acre per year to farmers. This amount of Rs. 5,000/acre p.a as input subsidy would be transferred for each Kharif and Rabi season directly into the bank accounts of the farmers. 
AP Rythu Raksha Scheme 2019 is the 2nd welfare scheme by the state government after announcement of raising of pension amount to farmers. This farmer’s investment support scheme is based on the lines of Telangana’s Rythu Bandhu Scheme 2018-19.
The guidelines for AP Rythu Raksha Scheme would be finalized in cabinet meeting of the state government.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Rythu Raksha Scheme 2019 for Farmers
AP Rythu Raksha is a farmer’s investment support scheme aims at providing input subsidy to farmers in Andhra Pradesh. The state govt. will credit money directly into the bank accounts of the farmers through direct benefit transfer (DBT) mode. This AP input subsidy scheme is going to be implemented from the next Kharif season. Moreover, the state govt. will implement this scheme in a phased manner and the scheme would include tenant farmers. 
Accordingly, the state govt. of Andhra Pradesh is going to credit Rs. 10,000 per year per acre into the farmer’s accounts as a part of Rythu Raksha Scheme. This amount would be distributed as Rs. 5,000 per acre per annum for Kharif season and Rs. 5,000 per acre per annum for Rabi season. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP govt. has specifically designed this scheme for the welfare of farmers on the lines of Telangana’s Rythu Bandhu Scheme in which govt. provides financial assistance of Rs. 4,000 per acre per annum. The guidelines for AP Rythu Raksha Scheme are going to be introduced soon for the overall development of farmers and thus of the agricultural society.
This assistance amount would be given to farmers to purchase inputs like seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, labour and other investments. All the small and marginal farmers along with the owners of lands, tenants have been included in the AP Rythu Raksha Scheme 2019.
The state govt. of Andhra Pradesh is going to implement this scheme in a phase wise manner and the govt. is collecting the data of the tenant farmers. The first phase of AP Rythu Raksha Scheme is going to be announced shortly and the farmers would get input subsidy in their bank accounts directly.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

The state govt. of Andhra Pradesh has doubled the pension amount under the NTR Bharosa Scheme. Now the beneficiaries of Old Age Pension Scheme, Widow Pension Scheme and others will get Rs. 2,000 per month. This announcement to double the pension amount from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 2,000 p.m was made on 11 January 2019 at Janmabhoomi Maa Vooru programme as a Sankranti gift to people.
Previously, AP CM has hike the pension amount from Rs. 200 to Rs. 1,000 in 2014. This enhanced pension would be paid to the social pension beneficiaries from February 2019 under NTR Bharosa Scheme. Around 54.14 lakh people in the entire state are going to be benefited from the decision. 
As the elections are upcoming, AP CM has decided to implement the doubling of social security benefit instead of making it a pre poll promise. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP NTR Bharosa Scheme 2019 – Pension Amount Doubled
Andhra Pradesh CM announcement hike in the pension amount under NTR Bharosa Scheme 2019 at Janmabhoomi Maa Vooru programme at Bogole in Nellore district. The hiked pension arrears for old age / widow / other social security schemes of Rs. 1,000 in January will be paid to the beneficiaries along with February pension of Rs. 2,000 (total 3000). The state govt. has doubled the pension amount for the welfare of the people. 
CM said that he is doing all this for the welfare of people as he does not wants to see the tears in the eyes of people. This decision to double the pension amount will create additional wealth for people and will also ensure their well being. From October 2014, around 54 lakh people are already availing the benefits of NTR Bharosa Scheme. Out of these, there are around 22,80,457 new beneficiaries.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state govt. has spend Rs. 24,618.39 crore on the implementation of social security scheme in the last 4 years. This will ensure prompt payment of pension to the beneficiaries. Accordingly, a biometric system has now been used to avoid any irregularities in the implementation of NTR Bharosa Scheme. In the current phase of Janmabhoomi programme, pension has been sanctioned for 3.5 lakh new beneficiaries. Moreover, the state govt. has also doubled pension amount for differently abled with 80% disability / transgenders from Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 3,000 p.m. 

Double the security, double the joy! #NTRBharosa In a historic move, @ncbn doubled the pensions of various beneficiaries to Rs.2000 per month. An estimated 54.14 lakh poor people will benefit from the increase pic.twitter.com/mqJM0uKc77
— Telugu Desam Party (@JaiTDP) January 12, 2019

This hike in pension is going to put Andhra Pradesh on the top in the country in the implementation of the social security scheme. AP state govt. is spending a Rs. 14,000 crore for the implementation of social security pension per annum. 
CM has also introduced another programme named Raksha which aims to provide free napkins to school going children studying in classes 8, 9 and 10 across the state. Around 6 lakh girls will get at-least 10 napkins for their needs under Raksha programme absolutely free of cost. Moreover, govt. will provide sanitary napkins to women at subsidised prices through fair price shops. Henceforth, the programme has been named so for the safety and dignity of girls.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Online Registration / Login 2019AP Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam Scheme Eligibility CriteriaUpdates on AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme 2019
Andhra Pradesh govt. invites AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme 2019 online registration / login at yuvanestham.ap.gov.in. Under this Unemployment Allowance Scheme, all the jobless youths will get Rs. 000 p.m to pursue skill development courses. This innovative nirudyoga bruthi scheme to provide financial assistance (dole) to 12 lakh unemployed youths with an outlay of Rs. 600 crore. 
This time, there is no requirement to make registration at employment exchange to avail allowance under AP Yuva Nestam Unemployment Pension Scheme. People can simply apply online at the Yuvanestham portal to get monthly allowance to jobless youths. Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme 2019 will reduce the burden on the family of unemployed youths.
Whether the candidates are B.Tech / P.G. / Diploma Polytechnic holders, they are entitled to get Rs. 1,000 per month under AP Yuva Nestam Scheme. People can also Download Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Mobile App to make registration for unemployment allowance from their android phones. Andhra Pradesh Yuvanestham Scheme Online registrations had started on 14 September 2018 and will close on 25 February 2019.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Online Registration / Login 2019
To apply online for AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme 2019, follow the procedure given below:-

Firstly, visit the official website yuvanestham.ap.gov.in
At the homepage, click at the “Apply Now / Login” link in the header or directly click this link
The page to “Apply For Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham” will appear as follows:-
AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Apply Online
Here candidates needs to enter their “Aadhar Number” and click at “Send OTP” button to get the One time password on registered mobile number in Aadhaar.
Afterwards, candidates can “Verify the OTP” to open the AP CM Yuva Nestam Online Registration Form which will appears as follows:-
AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Online Registration Form
Fill all the details correctly and then click at “Apply / Continue” button to proceed further. Next check Eligibility Details, Education Details and fill the remaining form to complete the registration process.
To understand the complete registration process in detailed version, please click the link – AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Registration Process

This Unemployment Pension Scheme will work in a transparent manner. After making registration and subsequent approval, each candidate will get allowance amount directly into their aadhaar linked bank accounts after biometrics verification.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam Scheme Eligibility Criteria
All the applicants must fulfill the eligibility criteria to avail unemployment allowance under AP Yuva Nestam Scheme 2019:-

Applicants must be unemployed in the age group of 22 to 35 years and a resident of Andhra Pradesh.
Candidates must possess the minimum educational qualification which is P.G / Graduation / Diploma of 2 or more years duration.
Applicants must belong to Below Poverty Line (BPL) family. If there are more than one unemployed candidates in a single family, then all candidates would be eligible for unemployment allowance of Rs. 2000 p.m.
Movable / Immovable properties : Applicants having 4 wheelers are ineligible. People with max. 2.5 acre wet land and 5 acre dry land are only eligible. For Anantapuramu district, this limit for max. wet land is revised to 5 acres and dry land to 10 acres.
Candidates who have already taken assistance / loan under any state govt. sponsored self employment scheme of above Rs. 50,000 subsidy are NOT eligible.
Any candidate who is working pursuing formal education is also NOT eligible.
Applicants working in public / private sector / quasi-government / self-employed are NOT eligible for assistance under AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham scheme.
Employees who are dismissed from Central / State govt. services are NOT eligible. He / She must not be convicted for any criminal offence.
Applicants must be enrolled in Praja Sahikara Survey (PSS). If any candidate is not enrolled and want to complete PSS, then he / she must visit the nearest Municipal Office / Panchayat Office / Revenue Office. They must contact the nearest enumerators of PSS. Raise a specific grievance through Yuvanestham portal or Raise unsurvey request from link : https://bit.ly/2NW2CwJ or call 1100.
Bio-metric EKYC must have been completed in PSS. To update biometric eKYC, please visit nearest Ration Shop / Meeseva Office / Municipal Office / Panchayat Office / Revenue Office.
There must be no government employee in the family. However, if the parents are receiving social pension, then candidates will remain eligible for AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme.
He / She must not be availing any scholarship benefits or NTR Bharosa Pension benefits.

Documents required – To make online registration for AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham / Unemployment Allowance scheme 2019, candidates must possess aadhaar Number, mobile Linked with aadhar, white ration card, SSC / graduation / P.G. certificates.
Updates on AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme 2019
To get latest updates regarding AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme, you must follow the Facebook page or official Twitter handler of Yuva Nestham Scheme. We are providing you the links to get regular updates:-
— AP Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam Facebook Page (Official)
— AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Twitter Handler (Official)
For more updates, follow the #MukhyamantriYuvanestham and for more details visit the official website http://yuvanestham.ap.gov.in/CMyuvaNapp/index.html





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh govt. will launch the ambitious Jala Dhara Yojana which is a drinking water supply project. AP Jala Dhaara Scheme will ensure supply of drinking water to households by pipelines in 48,363 village panchayats of the state. This scheme would be implemented with an outlay of Rs. 22,300 crore to benefit around 1.61 crore families. 
Tender process is going to be completed in 10 districts to start the pipeline works in the state. The mega water grid project is going to resolve the pending problem which is being faced by lakhs of families in more than 48,000 village panchayats. CM will launch the drinking water project works very soon. 
Minister for IT and Panchayat Raj, Nara Lokesh is consistently monitoring the progress of the Jala Dhaara scheme. The state govt. targets to launch this scheme by summer in those districts where tender process has already been completed.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Jala Dhara Yojana – Drinking Water Supply Project
AP govt. will start a new drinking water supply project namely Jala Dhara Yojana at a cost of Rs. 22,300 crore to supply drinking to families by pipelines to over 48,000 village panchayats of the state. This is one of the biggest investment of the govt. to tackle the drinking water crisis particularly in rural areas. Jala Dhaara Scheme is going to serve protected drinking water to nearly 1.61 crore population in rural areas.
The state govt. has sanctioned funds for this mega project and is also taking loans from the Asian Development Bank and other nationalised banks. The estimated cost of the water grid is around Rs. 22,300 crore. This scheme has been designed the drinking water scheme to eradicate the water problem forever in village panchayats. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

In 10 districts, tenders have already been finalised and the process is in progress for 3 districts of Chittoor, East Godavari and Srikakulam. The Jala Dhara Yojana project is divided into 3 zones on the basis of water availability. In the 1st phase, the primary focus will be on Krishna, East Godavari, West Godavari, Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts. In these districts, water availability is more as compared to other districts and govt. will provide tap connections. The 1st phase of the works would be taken up with an outlay of Rs. 15,000 crore.
As per the initial design, drinking water is going to be drawn from these water projects and will be supplied to villages through the pipelines. All the designs had been made to meet the drinking water requirements of villagers upto FY 2040 and each person to get at-least 70 litres of water per day. Around 26.27 tmcft of water would be required for the water grid. The water pipelines will be laid without causing inconvenience to the people in the villages and plan is designed to supply drinking water to the families living in over 48,000 villages.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh govt. has started Subhash Palekar Training Program for farmers to give a boost to Zero Budget Natural Farming Programme. This mega training program for ZBNF is for 10 days which has started on 8th December 2018 and will end on 17 December 2018. Til date, around 5.83 lakh farmers have adopted natural farming methods and the state govt. wants that around 60 lakh farmers should adopt natural farming till 2024. 
Natural farming is the need of the hour and this training program will promote, encourage and carry forward the process of natural farming. While addressing the 10-day Subhash Palekar Natural Farming Mega Training programme for farmers, CM said that govt. is sincerely promoting natural farming in the state. 
This Zero Budget Natural Farming (ZBNF) training program will check the spreading of some kinds of pest by using natural farming methods.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Subhash Palekar Training Program for Farmers
Subhash Palekar Training Programme is going to be organized for 10 days i.e from 8 December 2018 to 17 December 2018. The venue for this training program is Bible Mission Grounds, National Highway 16, Opp. Acharya Nagarjuna University, Guntur, Andhra Pradesh, India. The landmark for this Zero Budget Natural Farming (ZBNF) training program is near Kaza Toll Gate.
CM said that the state has already achieved 10.52% of GDP growth in last 4 and a half years. To generate wealth, there is need to implement developmental activities. AP govt. is going to make huge investment to promote organic farming and products in the state. Andhra Pradesh is going to become a role model for the world in organic farming practices. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state govt. is not inviting any new applications for the AP Subhash Palekar Training Program for the month of December 2018. This training program will enhance both short term and long term farmer’s welfare, particularly small and marginal farmers. This would be done through climate change resilient and low cost zero budget natural farming (ZBNF).

CM @ncbn inaugurated the Subhash Palekar training program at @gunturgoap today. The program will help empower the farmers in AP by training them in sustainable farming practices which will also bring higher income. pic.twitter.com/89pdPAZDkz
— Andhra Pradesh CM (@AndhraPradeshCM) December 8, 2018

The studies of Subhash Palekar ji and his work on zero budget natural farming are a gift to the nation. We assure him that the Subhash Palekar Natural Farming Program would be fully implemented in the state of Andhra Pradesh. The state is going to become a model for the nation and the entire world.
All the participants needs to arrange their own accommodation in and around Guntur and Vijayawada. Rythu Sadhikara Samstha (RySS) will not be able to provide accommodation to all. For those who are unable to arrange accommodation, RySS will provide a modest accommodation at the venue itself and in that case, participants will have to make their own bedding arrangements.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh govt. is going to start Skill Development Training program for jobless youth who have been enrolled in the AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme (Unemployment Allowance Scheme). To avail this training, interested candidates must make Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme online registration at yuvanestham.ap.gov.in. This Youth Special Training Program will provide employment opportunities to jobless persons in the state. 
Youth Special Training Programme will start from 10 December 2018 at around 555 centers across the state. Till date, around 4 lakh unemployed youth have been enrolled in Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam Scheme. The last date to apply online for AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme is 25 December 2018.
These enrolled youths are entitled to receive monthly pension benefits of Rs. 2,000 per month and can take up this skill development training programme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Skill Development Training Programme – AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme
AP govt. has launched Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme on 14 September 2018 to provide monthly pension of Rs. 2,000 to unemployed youth in the state. Now the state govt. has decided that it will start Skill Development Training Programme (Youth Special Training Program) to provide employment to such jobless candidates. 
This skill development training program is applicable for all the eligible youth between 22 to 35 years of age. To create employment opportunities under AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme, govt. will take up a special training programme from 10 December 2018. This Skill Development training programme will be given in 555 centers across the state. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state govt. is going to spend Rs 24 crore. To avail this training, candidates must fill the Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme online application form through the official website.
All the candidates enrolled in this AP Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam Scheme can get this special skill development training programme. This training would be provided on the basis of the choice selected by the unemployed person.
References
— AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme Online Registration – User Manual
— Download Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Mobile App
— For more details, visit the yuvanestham.ap.gov.inofficial website. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

Make in AP – Apply Online as Startup / College1. Apply Online as Startup – Make in AP2. Apply Online as College – Make in APAndhra Pradesh Make in AP Program TimelinesMake in AP Themes
Andhra Pradesh govt. has launched Make in AP platform at makeinap.in to enable start-ups, entrepreneurs and students to build innovative and sustainable solutions. Interested startups and colleges can now apply online at the official website to avail Make In AP program benefits. IT minister Nara Lokesh has rolled out this platform in partnership with NASSCOM-10,000 Startups and Innovation Valley (formerly known as AP Innovation Society). 
Start-ups with interests in multiple areas will be incubated and accelerated in a conducive ecosystem. AP govt. is going to become a key player in India’s knowledge economy and a series of events like hackathons and booth camps will be held over next 4 months in Amaravati, Visakhapatnam and Tirupati.
Around 50 corporates and 100 mentors are on-boarded by NASSCOM 10,000 startups and Idealabs. In the next 4 months, the state govt. is expected to have a participation of over 15,000 participants. People can also check the timelines of Make in AP program at the official website.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Make in AP – Apply Online as Startup / College
Make in AP platform www.makeinap.in will enable interaction with established corporates and mentors from leading technology companies to build innovative solutions. For this, they will get incentives in terms of cash prizes, incubation, mentor hours and recruitment. Challenges would be given by leading corporates and PSUs in several themes like agriculture, health, transportation, banking & finance, supply chain management. 
These problems would be solved with the help of emerging technologies like blockchain, IoT, AI / ML, augmented reality. A series of bootcamps and hackathons is going to be launched in different regions of Andhra Pradesh. Various colleges are going to host hackathons in regional finals and state level grand finale. Industry mentors will organize bootcamps in order to support participants.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

1. Apply Online as Startup – Make in AP
Make in AP program will provide paid PoCs with corporates and government, investor pitch, incubation and mentoring with NASSCOM-10,000 startups and Idealabs, corporate connect, recruitment with leading products & companies and go to market access. Below is the link to apply online as startup under Make in AP program:-
Make in AP Registration as Startup
The startup registration form for Make in AP program is shown below:-
Make in AP Startup Registration
2. Apply Online as College – Make in AP
Below is the link to apply online as college under Make in AP program:-
Make in AP College Registration
The Make in AP college registration form will appear as follows:-
Make in AP College Registration
Andhra Pradesh Make in AP Program Timelines
The timelines for Make in AP program are as follows:-

21 November 2018 – Launch of MakeinAP at Amaravati
20 January 2019 – Regional Final at Amaravati
26 January 2019 – Innovation Day at Vizag
15 February 2019 – Innovation Day at Tirupati
25 February 2019 – Regional Final at Vizag
23 March 2019 – Regional Final at Tirupati
30 March 2019 – State Final (Grand Finale)

Visit the official website www.makeinap.in for complete information on Make in AP program.

Presided over the launch of ‘Make In AP’ programme which is a unique initiative that acts as a platform for start-ups, entrepreneurs and students building innovative and sustainable solutions. pic.twitter.com/HmCKfXDpuJ
— Lokesh Nara (@naralokesh) November 21, 2018

Make in AP Themes
Following are the themes of Make in AP program which are described as follows:-


Themes


Agriculture
Banking and Finance


Education
Governance


Health
Smart Cities


Supply Chain Management
Transport


There are following technology tracks like internet of things, blockchain, cyber security, virtual reality, cloud computing, AI / ML and data analytics.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh govt. has launched YSR Kapu Nestam Scheme Phase 2 on 24 June 2020 to benefit women. Now AP YSR Kapu Nestham Application Form PDF format is available to download at navasakam.ap.gov.in. All the eligible women who wish to avail benefits can participate in YSR Navasakam Survey to get card. YSR Kapu Nestham Scheme List of beneficiaries would be released soon after the Navasakam survey gets over.
Under AP YSR Kapu Nestam Scheme, each women b/w age of 45 to 60 years and belonging to Kapu, Balija, Telaga, Ontari communities will get assistance. Andhra Pradesh govt. will provide financial aid of Rs. 75,000 in next 5 years (15,000 per annum) to each women beneficiary to improve their life.
Now download AP YSR Kapu Nestham Apply Online Form in PDF format at the official website. CM Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy said that in the 1st year, 2.36 lakh women will be benefited for which AP state government has allocated Rs. 354 crore.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP YSR Kapu Nestham Apply Form Download (PDF Format)
Here is the process to download AP YSR Kapu Nestam apply form in pdf format:-

Firstly visit the official website navasakam.ap.gov.in
At the homepage, click at the “Downloads” section and then click at the ‘Kapunestham Proforma‘ section to download YSR Kapu Nestam Application Form in xls format. Then convert this file into pdf format.
AP YSR Kapu Nestam Application Form Download (PDF) (Now applications closed)
The AP YSR Kapu Nestham Scheme Apply Form PDF format will appear as shown below:-
AP YSR Kapu Nestham Application Form PDF

All those candidates who wish to avail YSR Kapu Nestham scheme benefits can now fill this application form and submit it to Navasakam surveyors. This will enable people to get their name included in the YSR Kapu Nestam Scheme List of beneficiaries.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP YSR Kapu Nestam Scheme Features & Benefits
The objective of the scheme is to financially empower Kapu women above 45 years of age by enhancing their livelihood opportunities and living standards with financial assistance of Rs. 75,000/-at the rate of Rs.15,000/- per annum.

Women belonging to Kapu community and aged between 45 to 60 years are eligible.
Total family income should be less than Rs. 10,000 per month in rural areas and Rs. 12,000/- per month in urban areas.
Total land holding of the family should be less than 3 acres of wet land or 10 acres of dry land or 10 acres of both wet and dry land together.
No family member should be Government employee or pensioner.
Family should not own 4 wheeler (Taxi, Auto, Tractors Exempted).
No family member should pay income tax.
In urban areas family who owns no property or less than 750 sft built up area.

The cabinet approved implementation of YSR Kapu Nestham scheme with an allocation of Rs 1,101 crore and Rs 900 crore every year thereafter.
Along with this scheme, the state govt. has launched 2 other schemes namely AP Jagan Anna Vidya Deevena Scheme 2020 and AP Jagananna Vasathi Deevena Scheme 2020, read details through links.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: navasakam.ap.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP Bhuseva Project – Know Bhudhar Number1. How to Know Bhudhaar Number2. Allotment of Bhoodhar Number – Bulk & Individual AllocationLearn About Your Landlord Electronically at Bhu Seva Website
Andhra Pradesh CM has launched Bhuseva project in which the government and private lands across the state will be assigned 11 digit Bhudhar number for land administration. AP Bhu Seva project and Bhudhar web portal bhuseva.ap.gov.in has been launched by CM Chandrababu Naidu on 20 November 2018 for the first time in the country. At the official website of Bhuseva programme, people can know their Bhudhaar number, and can get their Bhudhar allocated through either bulk allocation or individual allocation. 
The ultimate goal of Bhuseva project is to provide Bhudhar numbers to 2.84 crore agricultural lands and 50 lakh urban and 85 lakh rural properties. Bhudhaar numbers could not be tampered or distorted with. Even any land-related transaction could be monitored through these Bhodhaar numbers on a real-time basis. 
All the lands would be geo-tagged and the state govt. will provide 11-digit temporary Bhudhaar numbers starting with 99 is to be given. These Bhoodhar numbers follows the similar process as of Aadhaar in a 2 step process and will serve the purpose of land database. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Bhuseva Project – Know Bhudhar Number
Bhudhaar number system developed with the integration of technology would reduce time delay and corruption in land records. The official website for Bhu Seva Project and Bhudhar numbers is bhuseva.ap.gov.in. The 11-digit permanent Bhudhar numbers would be assigned after the physical attributes and records available with the Revenue, Registration and Stamps, Survey, Municipal Administration, Panchayat Raj and Forest departments are cross-checked. 
1. How to Know Bhudhaar Number
People can check their Bhudhaar numbers through the link given below:-
http://bhuseva.ap.gov.in/Information/know-your-bhudhaar
Know Bhudhaar Number Andhra Pradesh


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

2. Allotment of Bhoodhar Number – Bulk & Individual Allocation
The Bhodhaar number can be allocated in bulk or can be given through individual allocation. To get complete information, please click the links given below:-
— For Bulk Allocation of Bhudhaar – http://bhuseva.ap.gov.in/bhudhaar-allocation/bulk-allocation
— For Individual Allocation of Bhudhaar – http://bhuseva.ap.gov.in/bhudhaar-allocation/individual-allocation
This Bhuseva project will facilitate farmers to get mutations done online automatically. This would save time and money and all the electronic records are going to be aligned with the information contained in the field measurement books.
The information regarding the launch of the website for Bhuseva project and Bhudaar numbers for land records has been officially given on the twitter handler page of the CM N. Chandrababu Naidu and the tweet is given below.

రాష్ట్ర రెవిన్యూ సంస్కరణలలో సరికొత్త అధ్యాయం భూసేవ ప్రాజెక్టు. కేవలం ఒక్క క్లిక్‌తో భూమికి సంబంధించిన సమగ్ర సమాచారాన్ని https://t.co/2SBKTuZQQY పోర్టల్ ద్వారా ఎక్కడినుండైనా తెలుసుకునే ఏర్పాటు చేశాం. 8 శాఖల సమన్వయంతో సమీకృతం చేసి భూసేవలను అందిస్తాం. pic.twitter.com/kgq9Qs99Vh
— N Chandrababu Naidu (@ncbn) November 20, 2018

Learn About Your Landlord Electronically at Bhu Seva Website
People can learn about their landlord electronically through eKYB process which is equivalent to eKYC process. The candidates can learn about their landlord electronically through the link below:-
— http://bhuseva.ap.gov.in/bhudhaar-authentication/eKYB
— Benefits of Bhudhaar
Geo reference is going to be introduced soon to enable people to view the details of their land through satellite mapping. The disputes regarding 6 categories of lands including doted lands, 24,000 farm lands would be settled within a month by organizing gram sabhas.

CM @ncbn launched the Bhuseva project today at Praja Vedika. To make land administration easier, the project aims at establishing an effective database by assigning 11-digit unique Bhudhaar numbers to agricultural, urban and rural properties. pic.twitter.com/8vWsitOswN
— Andhra Pradesh CM (@AndhraPradeshCM) November 20, 2018

Bhu Seva Project is a major initiative to establish a fool-proof database of lands which makes land administration a lot easier. This project will also make the transaction simpler and takes the technology adoption to a higher level as the state govt. looks to improve the efficiencies. For more details, visit the official website – https://bhuseva.ap.gov.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP Adarana 2 Scheme Online Application FormAdarana II Scheme Application Status – Check OnlineAdarana II Scheme Eligibility Criteria & Type of Assistance
Andhra Pradesh govt. had re-introduced the AP Adarana 2 Scheme and is inviting online application forms at adarana.ap.gov.in from the artisans of backward class (BC) category. Under the Adarana scheme 2, the state govt. would provide modern tools to artisans with 90% subsidy which was 70% previously and has allocated Rs. 750 crore to it. Backward Classes Finance Corporation (BCFC) is going to provide modern tools to 4.25 lakh artisans at heavily subsidized price. 
Adarana Scheme II is the flagship scheme for backward classes which aims to modernize their tools and technology. AP Adarana 2 Scheme will empower the poor artisans in rural areas by creating additional income, raising their living standards and by increasing their productivity. This scheme will minimize drudgery, improve product / service quality with modern operation process.
This scheme will provide financial assistance on tools in 3 slabs i.e Rs. 30,000, Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 10,000/- as unit cost with 70% subsidy component, 20% NBCFDC loan and 10% beneficiary contribution for procurement of model tools and gadgets. Interested candidates can also check their application status at the official website. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Adarana 2 Scheme Online Application Form
Below is the complete procedure to apply online for Adarana Scheme 2 for subsidy on modern tools to practising artisans:- 

Firstly visit the official website http://adarana.ap.gov.in/ADARANA
At the homepage, click at the “Apply Online” tab present in the header as shown in the figure below:-
Adarana 2 Scheme Apply Online
Then the AP Adarana scheme online application will appear as shown below:-
AP Adarana Scheme Online Application
Then applicants needs to validate OTP and Proceed to apply online for Adarana scheme beneficiary registration as shown in the figure below:-
Adarana Scheme Online Apply Beneficiary Registration
Here candidates needs to fill their ration card number, personal details, aadhaar number and click at the “Submit” button to complete the registration process.

In case the applicants of BC category are finding it difficult to understand the application filling process for adarana scheme, then they can click at How to Apply for Adarana Scheme Online to know the process in detail.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Adarana II Scheme Application Status – Check Online
CM will distribute over 1 lakh tools among the artisans by CM N Chandrababu Naidu at Vijayawada Municipal Stadium on 12 November 2018. Till date, around 5.37 lakh applications were received to avail the Adarana II Scheme benefits. Out of these received applications, 2.78 lakh applications have been selected, 1.20 lakh applications are in progress for approval and 1.11 lakh have been approved. Candidates can check their application status online by the following method:-

Visit the same official website http://adarana.ap.gov.in
Click at the “Application Status” tab or directly click this link
Then the Adarana II Scheme application status checking page will appear as shown below:-
Adarana Scheme Online Application Status
Finally, candidates can enter their ‘Application / Ration Card Number’ and click at the “Get Application details” options to check the online application status of Adarana 2 scheme.

This scheme aims to provide financial assistance to the practising artisans belonging to the backward classes to acquire new and improved modern tools and gadgets. This would enable them for sustainable income generating activity and economic development. To empower BC category people by providing necessary training to improve their productivity with minimum drudgery and enhance their service quality as per the market needs.
Adarana II Scheme Eligibility Criteria & Type of Assistance
All the artisans must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to become eligible to get modern tools at subsidized prices:- 

All the BC category applicants must belong to the age group of 18 to 50 years.
Beneficiaries shall be registered under Praja Sadhikarika Survey (Smart Pulse Survey).


CM @ncbn launched the Adarana-2 scheme at IGMS, Vijayawada today. Benefitting 2.07 Lac people from 124 backward minority communities, the scheme aims at empowering artisans by providing advanced equipment. #PedarikamPaiGelupu pic.twitter.com/6FcdBGC1lX
— Andhra Pradesh CM (@AndhraPradeshCM) November 12, 2018

However, AP govt. is focusing to provide high-end mechanized tools to the practicing artisans of BC communities over and above the ceiling limit of Rs. 30,000 under Adarana Plus scheme and separate guidelines will be issued for this scheme.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh CM N Chandrababu Naidu has released the brochure and logo of its first Happy Nest housing project in Amaravati. The Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) officials have said that a new web portal will be open for general public from 9 November 2018. The CRDA has proposed to develop the Happy Nest housing project in 14.46 acres with 12 G+18 towers having 1200 flats in each tower. 
The AP chief minister has also reviewed the progress of recent ongoing housing projects and also examines their access roads. While reviewing the progress of projects in Amaravati capital region, CM said that this project will reach the expectations of the people by providing them 2 BHK & 3 BHK flats and services of world class standards. 
AP govt. launches Happy Nest with a tagline of “See Future-Be Future” at the secretariat to provide affordable flats to the people. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Amaravati Happy Nest Housing Project by CRDA
Andhra Pradesh govt. will start Happy Nest housing project in Amaravati by CRDA to provide flats with world class facilities to the homebuyers. A HappyNest is a modern commune of 1,200 smart 2 & 3 BHK apartments in 12 high-rise towers, coming up on a sprawling 14.46 acres plot. The official web portal happynest.live for Amaravati Happy Nest housing scheme would be opened soon and the complete brochure and logo has already been released. The base price of flats is fixed at Rs. 3492 per sq.ft and the bookings for 2BHK & 3BHK flats will open on 9 November 2018. 
CM has expressed his concern over the progress of other infrastructure works taking place in the capital region. He lay emphasis on the futuristic visualization of the projects and also said that the officials must work consistently to complete housing projects on time. The state govt. wants clarity at micro level of development and CM himself will monitor the work progress on a real time basis.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

As per the information given by the officials, the seed access road works are completed up to a stretch of 14 km and officials would soon complete the remaining 7 km stretch, which was delayed in the past due to land acquisition.

రాజధానిలో సీఆర్‌డీఏ ప్రతిష్టాత్మకంగా చేపట్టిన గృహ నిర్మాణ ప్రాజెక్టు ‘హ్యాపీనెస్ట్’‌ను ప్రారంభించాము. దీనికి సంబంధించి పూర్తి వివరాలతో కూడిన ఆన్‌లైన్ పోర్టల్‌ న‌వంబ‌ర్ 9 నుండి అందుబాటులోకి రానుంది. ప్రజల అంచనాలకు ఏమాత్రం తీసిపోకుండా హ్యాపీనెస్ట్ గృహాలు ఉంటాయి. pic.twitter.com/9BCjMkRqq9
— N Chandrababu Naidu (@ncbn) November 1, 2018

CM Chandrababu Naidu has also given warning to the service providers to complete the construction works as per the mentioned schedule. CM has warned the contractors to complete the housing projects as per the given schedule and noted that the development of houses must be realized by the end of December 2018. For more details, call on the helpline number 8882001234. For more details, visit the official website https://www.happynest.live/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Government of Andhra Pradesh has launched a new Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) portal apcmrf.ap.gov.in to invite donations to help Cyclone Titli affected people. The recent cyclone has caused a large-scale devastation to public property and private property in Srikakulam. Interested people who wants to donate can directly visit AP CM Relief Fund portal and make their contribution to help the people in this adverse and most needy situation. 
CM Nara Chandrababu Naidu appeals individuals to come forward and do their best to provide support to the families affected by the Cyclone Titli. He also appeals all the corporate establishments to adopt few affected villages and develop required infrastructure to ultimately make them.
People of Srikakulam are facing untold hardships in this disastrous time as the devastation is high mainly of power infrastructure, agriculture, horticulture plantations and houses.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) – How to Donate Online
In this hour of distress, people can extend their helping hands to the people of Srikakulam. All the people can contribute and make a significant difference by supporting the ongoing relief efforts. Below is the complete procedure to clarify the process of making donation to AP CM relief fund:-

Visit the official website of AP CM relief fund at apcmrf.ap.gov.in
At the homepage, click at the “Donate Now” tab to open the AP CM Relief Fund application form which will appear as shown below:-
AP CM Relief Fund CMRF Application Form
Here candidates can enter their name, e-mail ID, mobile number, donation amount and click at the “Proceed” button.
Candidates can choose any payment method as described below to make their contribution for relief fund.

Launched the new website of Chief Minister’s Relief Fund: https://t.co/g3T0bDyLLe today in the wake of #CycloneTitli that affected the north Andhra districts on 11th Oct. Appealing to everyone to show solidarity with AP and contribute to the relief fund by making online payments. pic.twitter.com/xflidJvkxG


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

— N Chandrababu Naidu (@ncbn) October 20, 2018

Moreover, people can also contribute any amount to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund through making donations in the bank to Name: CM Relief Fund, A/c No: 110310100029039, Bank & Branch – Andhra Bank, AP Secretariate Branch, Velagapudi & IFS Code (IFSC): ANDB0003079.

The entire state administration of Andhra Pradesh has taken up relief efforts, involving unprecedented mobilization and deployment of the govt. machinery on a massive scale, working round the clock. With this indomitable spirit of the people of Srikakulam, normalcy is going to be restored soon. 
AP CM Relief Fund – Donation Modes / Payment Methods
Donors can choose the option of their choice to make transactions and contribute to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund at apcmrf.ap.gov.in. You can donate through the following payment methods:-

Internet Banking
Credit / Debit Card (Domestic & International)
Mobile Wallets
Unified Payments Interface (UPI)
QR Code

With a small step, you can play a big role in rebuilding the lives of Cyclone Titli affected people. For more details, visit the official website http://www.apcmrf.ap.gov.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh cabinet approved the plan to construct 4 lakh houses under NTR rural housing scheme for poor people in rural areas. CM Chandrababu Naidu presided over the cabinet meeting which decides that the cost of a unit would be Rs 2 lakh for each SC and ST family and Rs. 1.5 lakh for other category people. 
The state cabinet has also sanctioned 35,000 more affordable houses for villages under Anantapur and Hindupur Urban Development Authorities.
While addressing the media on the decisions of cabinet decisions, Information and Public Relations Minister Kalava Srinivasulu has given this information on 5th October 2018. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP NTR Rural Housing Scheme – 4 lakh More Houses
AP govt. is going to build 4,00,000 new affordable homes with NREGA funds under NTR Rural Housing Scheme in 2019-20 fiscal year. The beneficiaries will include members from the marginalised communities. The unit cost is fixed at Rs. 2 lakh for SC and ST beneficiaries and Rs. 1.50 lakh for other beneficiaries. Cabinet committee is also going to construct 35k new houses under Anantapur and Hindupur Urban Development Authorities.
In order to encourage setting up of education and health institutes in Tirupati, Amaravati and Visakhapatnam, cabinet decided to give lands to such institutes at cheaper rates than existing market prices. This decision would assist the 3 cities to become education hubs and CM has directed officials to prepare an action plan in this regard.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The cabinet meeting has decided to include new drought mandals in the state along with the already announced drought mandals. Cabinet committee will provide allowance to 90,765 weavers during rainy season (monsoon) for 2 months and each family will get Rs. 2,000 per month. GoAP will also install solar panels at all the irrigation canals with PPP models enabling access to solar energy for all lift irrigation schemes.

Joined Hon'ble CM and colleagues at the cabinet meeting today where decisions were taken on a few key issues. The GoAP will fund 4 Lakh houses to be built under the NTR rural housing scheme. The beneficiaries will include members from the marginalised communities. pic.twitter.com/N7VPd6VXLT
— Lokesh Nara (@naralokesh) October 5, 2018

AP govt. allows Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority (APCRDA) to take 10,000 crore loan from commercial banks for expediting works in Amaravati. Moreover to tackle private hospitals from frightening patients of dengue, swine flu, viral fever, govt. is now considering a strict vigil to curtail such practices. The state govt. will also focus on maintenance of sanitation, drainage system, drinking water supply and controlling mosquitoes. 192 posts are also being sanctioned in 12 junior colleges running under Social Welfare department.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh govt. has launched AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme Mobile Application for android phone users. All the jobless youths can make registration to get Rs. 1000 monthly unemployment allowance. Under nirudyoga bruthi scheme, applicants will get financial assistance to pursue skill development courses and to reduce burden on families of such jobless candidates. Here we are going to tell you that how you can Download AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme Mobile App Online.
Two options are available for making registration, one is to apply online for AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme at yuvanestham.ap.gov.in. Second is to Download AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme Mobile App Online and make registration at own smartphones. This app is available on the Google Playstore with the name of “Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham” and is of 4.3 MB. 
Latest Update – Youth Special Training Program under AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme / Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme to start from 10 December 2018 at 555 centers across the state. Apply online at yuvanestham.ap.gov.in.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Yuva Nestham Scheme will provide unemployment dole to around 12 lakh jobless candidates. AP govt. has allocated a budget of Rs. 600 crore for this unemployment pension scheme. 
Download AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme Mobile App
All the applicants who wants to make AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Registration through Mobile App (Android App) can download this app directly through the link below:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.codetree.unemploymentapp
This app is of 4.3 MB and is developed by RTGS, Govt. of AP. Applicants must download and install this app in their smartphones to make registration for unemployment allowance of Rs. 1000 per month.
On Installation of Mobile App, this Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham App will appear as follows:-
AP Unemployment Allowance App Download
After entering the Aadhaar Number, candidates can make Nirudyoga Bruthi Registration at the mobile app.
AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme Registration Form for Android App will appear as follows:-
AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme Registration App
Here candidates can enter the Areas of Interest, Educational Details, Year Passed and click at the “Agree” button to complete the application process.

To understand the complete application process, check the complete AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Registration Process (Mobile App) to download and make registration for unemployment allowance at your phone.
Complete Details – People can also make AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Online Registration at the official website yuvanestham.ap.gov.in to get monthly allowance of Rs 1000 p.m.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh govt. approves to allot 15,091 houses in 2018-19 under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) – NTR Nagar Urban Housing Scheme. The state govt. also decides that if houses allotted in rural areas of the state from 1993-94 to 2006-07 are in deteriorated condition, then such people will get new homes. Rural people will now get new houses under NTR Rural Housing Scheme with the same conditions. This decision was taken in the cabinet meeting held on 6 September 2018 at the state secretariat. 
AP govt. has also decided to pay dearness allowance at revised rates to state govt. employees and pensioners. This Revised Rate of Dearness Allowance will be applicable from 7 Jan 2017 and will cost Rs. 627 crore to state exchequer.
This decision to provide new affordable houses to the people under PMAY – NTR Nagar Urban Housing Scheme will help people to have their own shelter. The state govt. wants that every poor person in the state must have their own house.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

PMAY – NTR Nagar Urban Housing Scheme – AP to Allot 15091 Houses
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) is the flagship scheme of the Modi govt. to ensure “Housing For All”. The main vision of PMAY Housing Scheme is to provide houses to every homeless people in the country whether in urban area or rural area. AP govt. runs its own NTR Housing Scheme to provide houses to the poor people in Andhra Pradesh. Now for Urban poor, the state cabinet has approved to allot 15,091 houses under PMAY – NTR Nagar Urban Housing Scheme. 
Rural people who were allotted houses in rural areas between 1993-94 to 2006-07 and now their houses are in bad conditions, then such people will also get new homes under NTR Rural housing Scheme. Various other decisions were also taken in the cabinet meeting. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

A draft bill for setting up of AP Maritime Board was approved. This would result in the development of seaports and for their proper administration. In addition, proposal to revise exclusive limit of Krishnapatnam port was also approved. Other decision was to boost aviation sector and incentives were approved for Indigo airlines to run two return flights in a week in Vijayawada Singapore route. 
Terms & Condition of previous agreement to avail credit of Rs. 1385 crore for development of Machilipatnam Deepwater port and industrial corridor will be revised. Now the state govt. will provide 1 year subsidy of Rs. 2 / unit in power tariff to aqua farmers w.e.f 1 August 2018. This subsidy is going to benefit 94,913 aqua farmers. 
International Institute of Digital Technologies will be made according to the section 8 company to provide boost to education sector. Govt. has allocated Rs. 97.5 crore for next 2 years for investment purpose. NTR Cancer Care Project will be setup with Tata Trust.
AP Unemployment Allowance Scheme is going to be launched on 14 September 2018. Complete list of beneficiaries will be finalized till 2 October 2018. Govt. will form an Arya Vysya Welfare and Development Corporation to provide loans to the Vysya community for self-employment, financial aid and foreign education. Furthermore, time limit to export red sanders to Patanjali Ayurveda is now extended to 3 more months.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh govt. has launched new AP Basavatarakam Mother Kits Scheme. These kits will be given to pregnant women after their delivery in all government hospitals. CM N Chandrababu Naidu has formally launched this scheme in Undavalli as a gift to womenfolk on the eve of Independence Day (15 August 2018). 
At the launch event, Naidu said that the govt. will spend Rs. 37.70 crore on these Mother Kits every year. The state govt. is already distributing ‘NTR Baby Kits’ to the newborn babies in all the government hospitals since September 2016.
NTR Baby Kits has helped in child mortality and increased institutional deliveries from 42 per cent to 45 per cent. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Basavatarakam Mother Kits Scheme for Women
The important features and highlights of AP Basavatarakam Mother Kits Scheme are as follows:-

Andhra Pradesh CM N Chandrababu Naidu has launched Basavatarakam Mother Kits Scheme on 15 August 2018.
The state govt. will provide mother kits to women after delivery in govt. hospitals.
On this occasion, the state govt. will spend Rs. 37.70 crore on these Kits per year.
From September 2016, the state govt. has been distributing NTR Baby Kits to newborn babies in all govt. hospitals.
This has helped in reducing child mortality and increased institutional deliveries from 42% to 45%. Till Date, the state govt. has already distributed as many as 5.7 lakh baby kits.

Andhra Pradesh govt. believes that these Mother kits will lead to an increase in the institutional deliveries.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

High Court Stay Order on AP Basavatarakam Mother Kits Scheme
Just within the few hours of its launch, the state govt. has received a shocking news from the Honorable High Court. HC has put a stay order on the launch of this AP Basavatarakam Mother Kits Scheme. This women welfare scheme is facing criticism on its naming after Nandamuri Basavatarakam who was no way associated with the state government. 
The primary cause of the stay order is that the state govt. invites “Tenders” by fixing a price tag of each kit at Rs. 1,038. Another company has come forward to provide kits at lower cost than its competitors. However, the company which quoted the higher amount is being given the tender for some undisclosed reasons. AP CM is currently holding the Health Ministry which means that he himself has finalized the prizes. So, the High Court didn’t allow the roll out of Basavatarakam Kits scheme on 15 August 2018.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP Pre Matric Scholarship Scheme 2018-19 Registration FormAP Pre-Matric Scholarship 2018-19 Eligibility CriteriaList of Documents for AP Pre Matric Scholarship Scheme 2018-19
Andhra Pradesh govt. is inviting online applications for Pre-Matric Scholarship 2018-19. All the students studying in Class 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th and 10th class can get financial assistance for studies under this centrally sponsored scheme. Social Welfare Department is inviting AP Pre Matric Scholarship Scheme Registration Form from SC / ST / OBC / Disabled candidates at jnanabhumi.ap.gov.in. 
Pre Matric Scholarship Online Registration Lines are now open and candidates can now fill the online application form. This amount will be directly credited into the bank account of the students. Aadhaar Card is a mandatory requirement to avail the scholarship scheme benefits.
Income Certificate and Caste Certificate must be produced to complete the application process. People can also check the application status and print application form at the official website. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Pre Matric Scholarship Scheme 2018-19 Registration Form
All the interested and eligible SC / ST / OBC / Disabled candidates can now apply online and fill AP Pre-Matric Scholarship Scheme Registration Form as follows:-

Firstly visit the official website https://jnanabhumi.ap.gov.in/
At the homepage, click at the “Pre Matric Registration Form 2018-19” as shown in the figure below:-
AP Pre Matric Scholarship Apply Online
Afterwards the Pre Matric Scholarship Scheme 2018-19 Registration Form will appear as follows:-
Pre Matric Scholarship Scheme 2018-19 Registration Form
In the AP Pre-Matric Scholarship Application Form, candidates have to fill all the details accurately. This includes Ration Card number, Student Particulars, School Particulars, Bank Account Details, Income Certificate Details, Caste Certificate Details and upload supporting documents.
Finally, candidates can click at the “Submit Application” button to complete the application process.
Furthermore, candidates can also Print Application as shown below:-
AP Pre Matric Scholarship Application Form Print

This scheme is of paramount importance as all the students from poor and deprived sections of the society can now get financial assistance for their studies.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Pre-Matric Scholarship 2018-19 Eligibility Criteria
All the candidates must fulfill the following conditions to become eligible for Pre Matric Scholarship Scheme:-

Candidate must be a permanent resident of Andhra Pradesh.
Applicant must be studying in Class 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th or 10th class.
The annual income of the family from all sources must not exceed Rs. 2 lakhs per annum. To prove this, candidates needs to submit Income Certificate.
Aadhaar Card is a mandatory document for this scholarship. In case the candidates does not possess this ID, they must visit the nearest enrollment center and get enrolled.
He / She must belong to SC / ST / OBC / Disabled Category.
Any applicant must be a regular, full time student studying in any Govt. School or School run by Local Bodies.

All the ID Proofs must be attached and uploaded in the prescribed format in online application form.
List of Documents for AP Pre Matric Scholarship Scheme 2018-19
Candidates must upload the following documents to complete the Pre Matric Scholarship Scheme Registration Process:-

Income Certificate from MeeSeva
Caste Certificate Obtained from MeeSeva
Bonafide Certificate issued by the Head of the institution (School)
Aadhaar Card / UID (Scanned Copy)
First Page of Bank Pass Book (Scanned Copy)

All the candidates are required to complete the application process within the prescribed time duration to avail scholarship benefits. For more details, visit the official website https://jnanabhumi.ap.gov.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Cabinet Committee of Andhra Pradesh has decided to roll-out a new scheme named AP Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam – Unemployment Pension Scheme. Under this welfare scheme, all the unemployed youths in the state will get Rs. 2000 (revised in budget 2019-2020). A new platform for Yuvanestham will be launched and this platform will also link to Skill Development. Around 12.26 lakh jobless candidates will get benefited from this unemployment dole. 
Simultaneously, govt. will impart skill development and provide training to youths in their fields of interests. The state govt. will integrate state and central schemes and will roll out new Apprenticeship Programme. In this program, youths will get on-job training and a chance to enhance and upgrade their skills.
Latest Update – Skill Development Training Program under AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme / Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam Scheme to start from 10 December 2018 at 555 centers across the state.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Update – Make AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme Online Registration to get Unemployment Allowance of Rs. 1,000 p.m.
Lokesh Nara, Minister for Panchayat Raj, Rural Development, ITE&C, Govt of AP has given this information on his twitter handler @naralokesh. Now the youths can renew their hope for a bright future. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam – Unemployment Pension Scheme 2018
The important features and highlights of Mukhyamantri Yuvanestam Unemployment Allowance Scheme 2018 are as follows:- 

All the unemployed youths in the age group of 22 to 35 years will be eligible for this CM Yuvanestham Unemployment Pension scheme.
Each eligible candidates will get Rs. 2000 as financial assistance from the AP government.
AP Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam Scheme will benefit around 12.26 lakh jobless candidates who are consistently working to get a suitable job as per their degree.
AP govt. will launch a new platform / website in the 3rd or 4th week of August 2018.
All the unemployed candidates would have to make online registration of their complete details at the new website to avail the scheme benefits.
The state govt. will start disbursing the amount of unemployment allowance after 15 days directly into the bank account of the youths under AP Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestham Scheme.
All such candidates who are currently paying Provident Fund will not be eligible for Yuva Nestam scheme.
AP Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam Unemployment Pension

This Unemployment Dole Scheme will be implemented in a transparent manner just like pension scheme where money is disbursed after biometric authentication. Moreover, govt. will also lay special emphasis on providing skill development and training to enable them to get jobs.
Govt. will make available the data of unemployed youths to industries and youths which are searching for new talent. However as soon as the candidates get job, this unemployment allowance will be ceased. The state cabinet has also decided to fill 20,000 job vacancies, 9000 teacher posts and various vacancies in other departments.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh govt. has started a new YSR Law Nestham Scheme in FY 2019-20. CM Jagan Mohan Reddy has launch this scheme on 3rd December 2019 at the occasion of National Lawyers Day. All the junior advocates and lawyers will get Rs. 5,000 per month as stipend. Interested persons will have to fill AP YSR Law Nestham Scheme Apply Online Form to make registration & inclusion of name in list of beneficiaries to avail stipend. 
The state govt. of Andhra Pradesh has issued a policy and procedures for the development of AP YSR Law Nestham Scheme. Each beneficiary who has applied for YSR Law Nestham Scheme & whose name is present in beneficiary list will get financial assistance of Rs. 5,000 p.m.
All the interested candidates can apply online for YSR Law Nestham Scheme at the official website https://myap.e-pragati.in/.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP YSR Law Nestham Scheme Apply Online Form / Login
The eligible beneficiaries will have to fill the AP YSR Law Nestham Scheme online application form at the official website mentioned below:-

AP YSR Law Nestham Scheme Official Website
At the homepage, you will see “registration / login” section as shown below:-
AP YSR Law Nestham Registration Login
Candidates can make YSR Law Nestam login through mobile number, email ID, aadhaar / VID number with OTP, aadhar / VID number with biometrics, aadhar / VID number with IRIS.
For making YSR Law Nestham Scheme Registration, select the “Register” section as shown below:-
AP YSR Law Nestham Scheme Registration Online
Here candidates can enter all details accurately and click at “Register Now” button to complete the YSR Law Nestham Scheme online registration process.

As of now, YSR Law Nestham Scheme Apply Online process is closed as the registration was only available b/w 30/10/2019 and 13/11/2019.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP YSR Law Nestam Scheme Features

The applicants must upload birth certificate along with law degree. The affidavit should be uploaded as registered with Bar council with verification of senior counsel.
The applicants must include aadhar number along with the completed AP YSR Law Nestham Scheme application form. Applicants should report specified bank account details.
Senior lawyers with 15 years of practice experience and active in practice with certification from the Bar Association. Junior advocates must submit an affidavit every six months.
Only 1 member of family is eligible for AP YSR Law Nestham Scheme. Every applicant must have aadhar card. At the time of issue of bio, junior lawyer’s age must be under 35 years.
4 wheeler in the name of junior lawyer is disqualified and non practicing lawyers are ineligible. In order to apply for AP YSR Law Nestham Scheme, applicant must have a law graduation degree.
The law graduation must be completed and name of applicant must be registered on the rolls under Section 17 Advocacy Act 1961 of State Bar Council.
The first 3 years of practice registration on the roll is considered in terms of section 22 of the Advocacy Act 1961.

All the junior lawyers will be eligible for a stipend for the remaining 3 years unless the first 3 years of commencement of practice is completed. 
In case the lawyer has quit his job or got another job. All the candidates must inform the relevant authorities. After registering as a lawyer in the Bar Council, their certificates must be kept in the Bar Council for 2 years.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.thehansindia.com/andhra-pradesh/andhra-pradesh-government-released-guidelines-for-ysr-law-nestam-scheme-which-provides-financial-assistance-to-lawyers-576519
SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh govt. will launch a new pilot program Bala Sanjeevani Scheme 2018. Under this scheme, govt. will provide nutritious and high protein food to pregnant women, mothers and the children below 6 years of age. This scheme will benefit nearly 20,000 pregnant women and 5900 children in the district. AP CM Chandrababu Naidu will launch this scheme at Grama Darsini Programme to be held at Gudivada village in S Rayavaram Mandal in Vishakapatnam district.
The primary objective is to reduce pregnant women and children mortality rate and to eradicate malnutrition from the state. After the successful implementation of AP Bala Sanjeevani pilot project, govt. will further expand the scope of this scheme. 
District administration has made elaborate arrangement for the successful launch and subsequent implementation of the scheme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Bala Sanjeevani Scheme 2018 for Pregnant Women & Children
Under this scheme, only the residents of Andhra Pradesh will be eligible. This scheme is applicable to pregnant women and children under 6 years of age. High protein diet is to given to eligible people to ensure proper health to the people. The important features, objectives and highlights of Bala Sanjeevani Scheme 2018 are as follows:-

To reduce infant mortality rate.
To avoid birth defect / diseases in newborns.
Eradication of Malnutrition in the state.
To provide nutritious food to pregnant women during their pregnancy period.

CM Naidu has also inaugurated 144 houses constructed at a cost of 2.40 houses under NTR Housing Scheme. NTR Village Park is also established with a cost of Rs. 2.75 lakh in the Gudivada village. Moreover, CM also inaugurated digital classrooms constructed at a cost of Rs. 2.5 lakh at Kotha Polavaram Village. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

This is followed by the inauguration of Anganwadi centre constructed at a cost of approx. Rs. 10 lakh. Then Chief Minister participated in a series of programmes and lay foundation stone to some other schemes of around Rs. 70.78 crore.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh government has launched Anna Canteens across various parts of the state. In these canteens, all the poor people will get breakfast, lunch and dinner Meals at just Rs. 5. Govt. plans to open a total number of 203 canteens in the state till 15 August 2018. These canteens will offer food to around 2.15 lakh poor people.
Akshay Patra Foundation will run these canteens and 100 canteens are already opened in the first phase. All the food given to the people will be tested and will satisfy all the quality parameters. These canteens will have all security gadgets to provide safe environment while eating.
Govt. will launch the 2nd phase very soon. Any person can get food in these AP Anna Canteens at Rs. 15 for 3 times in a day to satisfy their hunger. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Anna Canteens – Rs. 5 per Meal to Poor People
All the canteens offers subsidized food to the poor people in various Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) of the state. The important features and highlights of these Anna Canteens are as follows:-

About 100 Anna Canteens in AP were opened in 35 ULBs in the first phase and are now functional.
They would serve breakfast, lunch and dinner for just Rs. 5 a plate on week days.
Around 103 more canteens will be opened in the second phase till 15 August 2018.
Anna Canteens have auniform menu which includes Idli or Puri on all days. Upma and Pongal will be offered on selected days for breakfast while rice, curry, pickle, dal or sambhar and curd will be offered for lunch and dinner.
All the food which is provided in these canteens is comparable to international standards. The supplied food is benchmarked to KFC or McDonalds on parameters of Quality, environment, cleanliness, hygiene.
All the canteens will contain hi-tech technology facilities like CCTV and other gadgets for security.
On making entrance, finger print and iris of the person will be captured for facial recognition. This will prevent entry of fraud people in these canteens.

CM opens these canteens for crowdfunding and appeals to the citizens to donate liberally to run these canteens. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Andhra Pradeah Anna Canteens Second (2nd) Phase
The state govt. is going to launch the 2nd phase of Anna Canteens with an outlay of Rs. 83 crore. In this phase, around 103 canteens will be opened by 15 August 2018. Various elected representatives, bureaucrats and others from the community of Mahila Sadhikara Mitras, specially-abled, traders came forward and offered over Rs. 6 lakh.
Each canteen will serve around 350 plates of food per day for breakfast, lunch and dinner. This capacity could be extended to 500 plates when needed. Each canteen will possess decent interiors with a uniform elevation and design. There will also be a facility for electronic surveillance, issuing tokens and feedback system.
Akshay Patra Foundation in collaboration with the Municipal Administration and Civil Supplies Departments will provide meals to the needy people. Any person can donate either for a few plates or entire canteen in the name if their near and dear ones. This will ensure food to most number of poor people. Govt. will soon open a proper channel to directly offer donation.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Energy Department of Andhra Pradesh is going to Install 17 lakh Smart Meters to replace the existing conventional electricity meters. This scheme will streamline electricity consumption in the state. All the families having power consumption of more than 200 units in a month will get covered. AP govt. has requested Energy Efficiency Services Limited – EESL Smart Meter Tender is ready to supply 17 lakh smart meters for installation.
Installation of Smart meters will help in lowering the commercial and technical loss and enhancing the Billing Efficiency of power utilities. Smart Meters forms a part of the Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) solutions. Smart meters makes use of the GPS technology b/w meters and power Discoms.
EESL has invited tenders for the supply of 50 lakh smart meters out of which, AP share is 17 lakh. Each smart meter will be given at a nominal cost of around Rs. 2500. The state govt. will receive some quantum of smart meters in the next 2 months. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

EESL Smart Meter Tender – Smart Meters Installation in Andhra Pradesh
The important features and highlights of these Smart Meters are as follows:-

Smart Meters works as a 2 way communication network as control center equipment and are an effective alternate to conventional electricity meters.
These meters provides real time information to the Power Utilities and secure the energy usge information.
Smart meters are helpful in providing quick and accurate measurement of power consumption and also capable of receiving commands to work as per our requirement.
These meters can get connected to a web based monitoring system. Accordingly, such meters can minimize utility losses and thus can result in an increase in the revenues.
Prepaid Feature is also available in these Smart Meters just like Mobile Phones. All the consumers can also track their consumption pattern.
Tampering of Meters, which is a great issue for the conventional meters, can also be eliminated as Smart Meters possess a Net Metering System.
Govt. can achieve Power Sector Reforms through Smart Meters as these meters enable the companies to know the daily consumption using Time of Day (ToD) method. After gathering information, Power Utilities can cut Rs. 1 per unit between 10 p.m to 2 a.m for indutries while they can impose a penalty of Rs. 1 per unit during peak hours.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Disadvantages of Installing Smart Meters
Along with the above mentioned advantages, Smart Meters also possess certain disadvantages as listed below:-

Smart Meters eliminates the need of Human Meter Readers making it difficult to handle any problem / issues in these meters.
All Smart Meters follow a complex algorithm which is not easy to track and it is also complex to check their performance.

The state govt. wants that the Smart Meters should be supplied as soon as possible to implement this scheme effectively. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP Grid Connected Solar BLDC Pump Sets Scheme – ObjectivesImplementation of Grid connected Solar BLDC Pump Sets Scheme 2020Savings Due to Avoided Subsidy with Grid Connected Solar BLDC PumpsetWhat AP Govt. will Do with Surplus Energy Issuance of new Agricultural Connections in AP
Andhra Pradesh govt. has launched Grid Connected Solar BLDC Pump Sets Scheme for Farmers. Under this scheme, now all the new agriculture connections will be solar based. The state govt. will supply Solar Pumpsets having capacity of 3 HP & 5 HP. This Pump Set Yojana is to push Agricultural Connections to Solar Connections.
This Grid connected Solar BLDC Pump Sets Scheme will ensure daytime power supply, cost efficient irrigation to farmers. Moreover, the subsidy burden for new agricultural connections will be reduced from the AP government.
In the initial phase, the Energy Dept. had installed 250 pump sets on pilot basis in Vizianagaram district. Now the state govt. is implementing this scheme in Vishakhapatnam, Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and other districts of the state.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Grid Connected Solar BLDC Pump Sets Scheme – Objectives
AP govt. wants to fulfill their following objectives using this scheme:-
Reducing the subsidy burden for agricultural connections – Till date, the state govt. pays subsidy on the purchase of each new agriculture connections. Now this scheme will change the agricultural connections to solar connections will reduce the subsidy burden from the state govt.Cost Effective – Most of the pump sets used in agriculture are electricity based or diesel based (generators). In India, Villages usually suffers from problem of Electricity while the diesel based generators runs on diesel whose prices are increasing. So, this will be a cost effective method.Daytime Power Supply – For usage of pumps in irrigation, govt. usually provides electricity at night both in winters and summers. In winters, farmers have to work in adverse conditions due to cold weather. So, Solar Pump Sets will enable the farmers to utilize the generated electricity for irrigation even during daytime.
This scheme will divert all the agriculture connections towards the Solar Pump Sets.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Implementation of Grid connected Solar BLDC Pump Sets Scheme 2020
All the Superintending Engineers will categorize all new connections coming up in the state to solar. This would be done on completion of existing target of 50,000 agriculture connections per year on subsidy. The total number of existing agriculture connections is around 17.20 lakh for which the state govt. has allocated a subsidy amount of 6,030.17 crore in this year.
Savings Due to Avoided Subsidy with Grid Connected Solar BLDC Pumpset
ParameterValueCapital Cost of 5 HP Grid Connected Solar BLDC PumpsetRs. 4,00,000Net Present Value (NPV) of annual subsidyRs. 4,60,927NPV of Savings to APEPDCL due to avoided subsidy Rs. 60,927Grid Connected Solar BLDC Pumpset Savings due to avoided subsidy
What AP Govt. will Do with Surplus Energy 
Due to efficient pumpsets, surplus energy generated from solar panels after consumption by BLDC pumpsets can be injected into grid. This excess energy injected into grid results shall decrease power purchase cost for APEPDCL. AP govt. has announced payment of Rs. 1.50/kWh to the farmers for the excess energy injected into the grid. 
Farmer is providing lease free land for installation of Grid connected solar BLDC pumpsets in his field and is maintaining the asset by washing and cleaning solar panels regularly. Hence purchase of excess power from farmers at INR 1.50 per unit of energy injected into grid is a win-win situation for APEPDCL as well as farmers.
Issuance of new Agricultural Connections in AP
Energy Dept. has followed an easy approach for agricultural connections on the basis of targets framed by APERC in their tariff order for FY 2018-19. Now govt’s permission will be required for issuing new agricultural connections. Demand for new agricultural connections is rising in Prakasam, Kurnool & Anantpur districts as these areas are facing drought conditions.
Around 1.84 lakh applications for agriculture connections are still pending. Out of this, only 60,000 are paid applications and govt. will soon clear those applications which does not require erection of distribution transformers. Now all the new connections will be placed in the Solar Category and farmers will be encouraged to use solar pump sets. With Solar Pumps, farmers can avail day time power supply with no need to wait for APTransco for new connections.
Adani Group has placed the lowest quote of Rs. 3.35 lakh for 3 HP Pumpset while Junna Powers has quoted lowest bid for 4.29 lakhfor 5 HP Pumpset. APEPDCL is making negotiations to lower down the cost further. 
For more details, click the link – http://aperc.gov.in/admin/upload/PetitionAPEPDCL.pdf





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

CM Chandrababu Naidu, Andhra Pradesh has made an announcement for the launch of Health Scheme for Bar Council Advocates. He also announced various other welfare measures including benefits of house, hike in stipends, salaries & issuance of health cards for lawyers. Moreover, AP govt. will also implement Bhoodhar Card to keep track record for individual land holdings using a digital number. 
In addition to this, govt. will provide an additional Rs. 4 lakh to the family of the deceased advocates. The stipend for the freshers SC, ST, BC lawyers is now increased from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 5,000.
All these Schemes for Lawyers will impact their life to a great extent. Announcements made by the CM are a true justice to those who always works for justice to other people. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Health Scheme for Bar Council Advocates
The important features and highlights of this AP Health Scheme for Lawyers are as follows:-

Bar Council provides Rs. 4 lakh to the family of deceased advocates. Now the AP state govt. will give an additional Rs. 4 lakh to such families of Bar Council Lawyers.
Now, all the freshers from Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST) & Backward Classes (BC) will get an increased stipend of Rs. 5000 along with a Book Allowance of Rs. 20,000 to become lawyer. Previously, the stipend amount was just Rs. 1000.
AP govt. has also announced to make revisions in the salaries of Lawyers. Salary of Additional / Assistant Pleaders (AGPs), Government Pleaders (GP) and Additional / Assistant Public Prosecutors (APPs) will be increased from Rs 10,000 to Rs 20,000.
The state govt. will also implement Bhoodar Card for record of Land Holdings from 2 October 2018.

AP govt. is focusing on infrastructure development for Bar Council Lawyers in the state. AP govt. has taken these decisions during meeting with advocates on 9 June 2018. CM also gave an assurance to the legal community to complete the construction work of High Court & Legal City in Amravati in next 2 years.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state government also plans to open a new Law Academy. In this academy, Junior Lawyers will get training along with Health Scheme Benefits similar to that of journalists. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP Ration Card List 2020 – Check Details by Name or Aadhaar1. AP Ration Card Search With Aadhaar NumberVisit official websiteAP NFSA Ration Card Report linkNFSA FPShop Level ReportNFSA Member Level Report2. Search AP Ration Card Details By NameAP New Ration Card Status Enquiry – Download / Print Janmabhoomi RC1. AP Ration Card Status Enquiry2. AP Ration Card Application Search & Transaction History3. Download / Print Ration Card – epdsap.ap.gov.inEPDS AP – Ration Card Online Application FormsWhat is the Eligibility Criteria for Andhra Pradesh Ration CardList of Documents Required for New Ration Card in Andhra PradeshAn Overview of Andhra Pradesh Ration CardAP Ration Card – ePDS Helpline
Andhra Pradesh Ration Card List 2020 (District Wise) can be viewed online on the official website of civil supplies department of Andhra Pradesh. All the citizens who have made fresh registration for Ration Card can now Search AP Ration Card Details by Name or with Aadhaar Number and print it. Candidates whose name does not appears in the Ration Card New List 2020 can now Download RC Application Forms. All the citizens can also make their AP Ration Card Status Enquiry and check whether their new ration card status is active or not at epdsap.ap.gov.in
Janmabhoomi Ration Card is an essential document for the poor people to take benefits of most govt. schemes in Andhra Pradesh. Most importantly, people can purchase Ration at subsidized rates from Ration Shops located nearby.
AP govt. has made this list public to make the process of finding name easier. Now candidates can search their name in the APL BPL List. For inclusion of their name in this list, people can also learn How to Apply Ration Card Online in AP and fill AP New Ration Card Application Form 2020.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Ration Card List 2020 – Check Details by Name or Aadhaar
All the candidates who have earlier applied for the New Ration Card can check their name in the AP Ration Card List 2020 either by Name or by Aadhaar Number. Here is the complete procedure:-
1. AP Ration Card Search With Aadhaar Number


Here is the complete process to search AP ration card with the use of aadhaar number:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Total Time: 3 minutes


Visit official website
At first, visit the official website of dept. of consumer affairs, food & civil supplies, AP (ScbPDS Login page) at epdsap.ap.gov.in



AP NFSA Ration Card Report link
On the homepage, scroll over the “Public Reports” section in the header and then click at the “Ration Card Report (NFSA)” link to open the AP New Ration Card District Wise Report.



NFSA FPShop Level Report
Here click the District Name, next click at the Office Name (in NFSA Mandal Level Report) to open the NFSA FP Shop Level Report. Here candidates can click at the Numbers under AAY Cards, Priority Household Cards as shown in the figure below.



NFSA Member Level Report
Next a complete list of beneficiaries with their Aadhaar Number will appear where candidates can find their details. This includes Existing RC Number, Member, Gender, UID Number and Card Type.




2. Search AP Ration Card Details By Name
Firstly visit the same official website as above – https://epds2.ap.gov.in/epdsAP/epdsOn the homepage, scroll over the “Public Reports” section in the header and then click at the “Ration Card” link to open the New Ration Card District Wise list.
AP New Ration Card List 2020 District Wise
Here click the District Name, next click at the Office Name (in Office Wise Ration Card Report), then at the FPS Shop Number (in FPS Wise Ration Card Report) to open the Name Wise Ration Card List as shown in the figure:-
AP New Ration Card List 2020 Name Wise
Here candidates can Search AP Ration Card Details by Name. This list includes RC Number, Member Count, Name of Family Head, Father’s Name and Card Type.
Under Public Reports Section, there are various other facilities for citizens like Key Register, Key Register Additions / Deletions, Know your Allotment, Know your Shop, Know your MLSPOINT, KEY Register for Kerosene, Allocation / Distribution Drill-down, FPS Data, Area Wise RC Count Report, MEESEVA Report, MLS Data Report & Assembly Constituency Wise Ration Card Details.
AP New Ration Card Status Enquiry – Download / Print Janmabhoomi RC
All the candidates can check the status of their Application, Transactions and also make New Ration Card Status Enquiry at the official website of Food and Civil Supplies department, AP. All the candidates who were finding it difficult to find their name manually in the Ration Card New List 2020, can now search their name online. This could be done through the EPDS AP website – https://epds2.ap.gov.in/epdsAP/epds
1. AP Ration Card Status Enquiry
On the homepage, candidates can check their ration card status by locating the “Search Ration Card Option”.
AP Ration Card Status Enquiry
Here candidates needs to enter their Ration Card Number in the “Search Ration Card” section to open the complete “Ration Card Details” along with Transaction Status & Application Status.
2. AP Ration Card Application Search & Transaction History
Similar to the above mentioned process, candidates can also enter the Ration Card Number in the “Transaction History” to get the transaction details of the family members.
For details of family members in the Application, candidates can enter the Application Number or Ration Card in the “Application Search” section.
3. Download / Print Ration Card – epdsap.ap.gov.in
Candidates can directly download the Complete Ration Card and save it on your Desktop to take a printout of Ration Card. This is not the actual Ration Card but it is a Duplicate / Copy of the Ration Card. This can be used to avail Rationfrom the Ration Shops located nearby. To directly download / print ration Card, candidates will have to enter the Ration Card Number in the “Print Ration Card” section on the homepage.
EPDS AP – Ration Card Online Application Forms
All the candidates whose name does not appears in the Ration Card List 2020 can learn on How to Apply Ration Card Online in AP. They can fill the AP Ration Card Application Online through the link:-
AP New Ration Card 2020 Application Forms DownloadThe new Ration Card Online Application Form in Andhra Pradesh will appear as follows:-
AP Ration Card Application Online Download
Application Fees
There is no application form filling fee and there is no requirement to pay any fees while applying online for new ration card in Andhra Pradesh. However, applicants can collect their ration cards from the concerned authorities on making a payment of Rs. 5 per copy.
Timelines for Issuing Ration Card in Andhra Pradesh
All the applicants can submit the complete Andhra Pradesh Ration Card online application form and new ration cards would be issued within 15 days of submission of application. However in certain cases, 1 month time is required to issue a new ration card.
Linking of Aadhaar Card with Ration Card
People can now link their Unique Identification Number or Aadhaar Card with their ration card. This can be done online by visiting the official portal and then clicking at the “Link to UID” link.
What is the Eligibility Criteria for Andhra Pradesh Ration Card
All the applicants must meet the basic eligibility criteria to get a new ration card in Andhra Pradesh:-a) Applicants who are permanent resident of AP can apply.b) Households not already having ration card in the state are eligible.c) Newly married couples can apply for new ration card.d) Citizens having temporary ration cards whose date has been expired are eligible.
It is important to note that the issue of new ration card in Andhra Pradesh would be based on the household income as well as economic conditions of the family.
List of Documents Required for New Ration Card in Andhra Pradesh
Below is the complete list of documents required to apply online for new ration card in Andhra Pradesh:-
Residential proof such as Voter ID, Driving License, Aadhaar Card (Scanned Copy)Age Certificate (Scanned Copy)Caste Certificate (Scanned Copy)Identity Proof like Voter ID, PAN Card, Driving Licence, Aadhar Card (Scanned Copy)Income proof of the family (Scanned Copy)Recent Passport Size Photograph of the applicantValid Mobile Number / E-mail IDPrevious Electricity BillsBank PassbookGas Connection DetailsSelf Declaration and Certificate issued by Ward Councillor/ PradhanTenancy Agreement (if applicable)
In case of non-possession of above mentioned documents, applications for new ration cards are liable to get rejected.
An Overview of Andhra Pradesh Ration Card
Here is an overview of Andhra Pradesh Ration Card which is mentioned in the table below:-
Service TypeRation CardState NameAndhra PradeshArticle CategoryList / Status / Application FormConcerned DepartmentFood, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, Govt. of Andhra PradeshApplicable Year2020Mode of Checking Status / List / ApplicationOnlineOfficial Portalepdsap.ap.gov.in
AP Ration Card – ePDS Helpline
Any state resident who need any kind of help about the ration card or ration distribution can contact the ePDS helpline numberLandline number: 040-23494808 / 822Toll Free Number: 1967E-Mail ID: [email protected]
AP govt. is going to issue new ration cards for all the citizens whether BPL, AAY or APL candidates. This is necessary for getting ration through the distributors at various ration shops. Furthermore, all the citizens can check their name in the AP Ration Card New List 2020 at the official website of Civil Supplies Department of Andhra Pradesh.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: epdsap.ap.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

Andhra Pradesh Ration Card Online Application Forms 2020Issue of New AP Ration Card (Pink) Application Form Download PDFMember Addition (In case of Birth) in Ration Card Apply Online FormConversion of White Card to Pink Card Registration Form OnlineDeletion of Member in AP Ration Card FormHouse Hold Head Modifications in AP Ration Card Application FormsMember Migration in AP Ration Card Application Form PDFTransfer of AP Ration Card Form PDF DownloadSurrender of Ration Card Apply Form Download PDFReferences
Civil Supplies Department, Andhra Pradesh is inviting online applications for AP Ration Card 2020. Subsequently, all the citizens who wants to make fresh registration, Addition of Name, Deletion of Name, Modification in Ration Card details can download application forms under National Food Security Act (NFSA). To avail govt. scheme benefits, candidates name must appear in Ration Card New List 2019-2020 with latest updated information. Candidates can download application forms & apply in the prescribed format at www.ap.gov.in
Ration Card is an essential document for the poor people to take benefits of most govt. schemes. Most importantly, people can purchase Rationat subsidized rates from Ration Shops located nearby. AP govt. has made this village wise list public to make the process of finding name easier. Now candidates can search their name in the APL BPL List. For inclusion of their name in this list, people can also fill AP new ration card application form 2019-2020 as given below.
Latest Update – Now all candidates can Check AP New Ration Card List | Status Enquiry | Check Details by Name / Aadhaar Number. For more details, click the link – AP Ration Card List 2020 & Status Enquiry



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Andhra Pradesh Ration Card Online Application Forms 2020
All the forms necessary to get a New Ration card, Addition of Name on birth of child, Deletion of Name on Death of Family Member, Correcting Information in Ration Card, Change of Family Head, Member Migration are given below.

Visit the official website at https://ap.meeseva.gov.in/DeptPortal/Meeseva-Applications.html
At the homepage, click at the “Civil Supplies” link as shown below:-
AP Civil Supplies Dept Application Forms


Issue of New AP Ration Card (Pink) Application Form Download PDF
For new ration issuing, applicants can follow the process given below:- 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Click at the Issue of New Ration Card (Pink) Form in English link. The direct link is given here:-
Issue of New Ration Card (Pink) Apply Online Form in English – https://ap.meeseva.gov.in/DeptPortal/Application%20Forms%20New/Civil%20Supplies-pdf/Issue%20of%20New%20Ration%20Card%20(Pink)%20Application%20Form.pdf
The AP new ration card online application form 2020 will appear as shown below:-
AP New Ration Card Online Application Form

Member Addition (In case of Birth) in Ration Card Apply Online Form
In order to add the name of a member in AP ration card in case of birth of child in a family, people can fill this AP ration card member addition form using link:-
— AP Ration Card Member Addition Online Application Form (English) – https://ap.meeseva.gov.in/DeptPortal/Application%20Forms%20New/Civil%20Supplies-pdf/Ration%20Card%20Member%20Addition(Birth)%20Application%20Form.pdf
The member addition in ration card online application form of Andhra Pradesh will appear as shown below:-
AP Ration Card Member Addition Application Form
— AP Ration Card Member Addition Apply Online Form (Telugu) – https://ap.meeseva.gov.in/DeptPortal/Application%20Forms%20New/Civil%20Supplies-pdf/CIVIL%20SUPPLIES%20%20-%20RATION%20CARD%20MEMBER%20ADDING-Telugu.pdf
Conversion of White Card to Pink Card Registration Form Online
People can download the conversion of white card to pink AP ration card online registration form through the link below:-
https://ap.meeseva.gov.in/DeptPortal/Application%20Forms%20New/Civil%20Supplies-pdf/Conversion%20of%20White%20Card%20to%20Pink%20Card%20Application%20Form.pdf
The apply online form for conversion of white ration card to pink in Andhra Pradesh will appear as below:-
Apply Form for Conversion of White Ration Card to Pink in AP
Deletion of Member in AP Ration Card Form
Here is the direct link to check form for deletion of member in AP ration card form which is available in English language:-
https://ap.meeseva.gov.in/DeptPortal/Application%20Forms%20New/Civil%20Supplies-pdf/Deletion%20of%20Member%20in%20Ration%20Card%20Application%20Form.pdf
The member deletion in AP ration card form will appear as shown below:-
Member Deletion AP Ration Card Application Form 
For Telugu language application form for deletion of member in AP ration card, click the link here:-
https://ap.meeseva.gov.in/DeptPortal/Application%20Forms%20New/Civil%20Supplies-pdf/CIVIL%20SUPPLIES%20%20-%20RATION%20CARD%20MEMBER%20DELETION-Telugu.pdf 
House Hold Head Modifications in AP Ration Card Application Forms
The direct link to make house hold head modification in AP ration card application form in English language is here:-
https://ap.meeseva.gov.in/DeptPortal/Application%20Forms%20New/Civil%20Supplies-pdf/House%20Hold%20Head%20Modifications%20Application%20Form.pdf
The head modification AP ration card application form 2020 will appear as shown below:-
Household Head Modification AP Ration Card Form
For Telugu language, click the link here to download application form for household head modification in AP ration card in Telugu:-
https://ap.meeseva.gov.in/DeptPortal/Application%20Forms%20New/Civil%20Supplies-pdf/CIVIL%20SUPPLIES%20-%20Family%20Head%20Change-Telugu.pdf
Member Migration in AP Ration Card Application Form PDF
In order to download member migration in AP ration card application form PDF in English language, click the link here:-
https://ap.meeseva.gov.in/DeptPortal/Application%20Forms%20New/Civil%20Supplies-pdf/Ration%20Card%20Member%20Migration%20Application%20Form.pdf
The member migration in AP ration card application form download pdf will appear as shown below:-
Member Migration AP Ration Card Apply Form PDF
To download member migration in AP ration card application form in PDF format in Telugu language, click the link here:-
https://ap.meeseva.gov.in/DeptPortal/Application%20Forms%20New/Civil%20Supplies-pdf/CIVIL%20SUPPLIES%20-%20RATION%20CARD%20MEMBER%20MIGRATION-Telugu.pdf
Transfer of AP Ration Card Form PDF Download
For making transfer of AP ration card, applicants can download transfer of AP ration card form in PDF format in English language through the link:-
https://ap.meeseva.gov.in/DeptPortal/Application%20Forms%20New/Civil%20Supplies-pdf/Ration%20Card%20Transafer%20Application%20Form.pdf
The transfer of AP ration card application form pdf format will appear as shown below:-
Transfer AP Ration Card Application Form PDF Download
To make transfer of AP ration card, applicants can even download transfer of AP ration card form in PDF format in Telugu language through the link:-
https://ap.meeseva.gov.in/DeptPortal/Application%20Forms%20New/Civil%20Supplies-pdf/CIVILSUPPLIES%20-%20RATION%20CARD%20TRANSFER%20APPLICATION-Telugu.pdf
Surrender of Ration Card Apply Form Download PDF
Here is the direct link to download PDF of Surrender of ration card apply form which is available at the AP meeseva portal:-
https://ap.meeseva.gov.in/DeptPortal/Application%20Forms%20New/Civil%20Supplies-pdf/Surrender%20of%20Ration%20Card%20Application%20Form.pdf
The surrender of AP ration card apply form PDF download will appear as shown below:-
Surrender AP Ration Card Apply Form PDF Download
References
Ration Card Missing in Department Database Form – Click Here
Data Modifications in Ration Card Form – Click Here
In case, the links shown are striked out in your browser, then go the ap.meeseva.gov.in
Candidates can take a printout of these application forms by pressing ‘CTRL+P’ buttons or can download it online. After downloading, candidates must submit the completed forms to the concerned authorities to get their new ration card or perform modifications in the existing Ration Cards.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: ap.meeseva.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP Transport Learner’s Licence (LLR) Online Application FormCheck LLR Test Slot Availability & Book OnlineCheck LLR & DL Application StatusReferences
Andhra Pradesh govt. has launched an online system to apply for Learner’s Licence (LLR) and Driving Licence (DL). Now, all the candidates can fill AP Transport LLR Online Application Form, Book an Online Test Slot, Check Application Status and then apply for permanent Driving License. Learner Licence Services includes LLR Fresh Test, LLR Retest & LLR Endorsement. All the eligible candidates can apply for LLR at aptransport.org or aprtacitizen.epragathi.org 
All the candidates above 16 years of age can apply online for Motor Cycle Without Gear (MCWG) class of vehicles. For Non Transport Category of vehicles, application must be above 18 years of age. For Transport Category of vehicles, applicant must be above 20 years of age and must possess valid Non-Transport Licence for at-least 1 year.
Under Motor Vehicle Act 1988, all the individuals must possess an effective Driving Licence issued by Licensing Authority to become authorized to drive a motor vehicle in a public place.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Transport Learner’s Licence (LLR) Online Application Form
Below is the complete procedure to apply online for AP Transport Learner’s Licence (LLR):-

Firstly visit the official website aptransport.org
On the homepage, scroll over the “Licence” tab in the main menu and then click at the “Learner’s Licence” section.
Direct Link – All the candidates will be directed to a new website aprtacitizen.epragathi.org
At the “Licence Section” in the header, click at the “Learner’s Licence (LLR)” link or Click Here. Then read the Instructions carefully and click at the “Click Here to Apply for Learner Licence” button at the bottom.
Then candidates have to select the Type of Service – LLR Fresh Test (if does not possess DL / LLR), LLR Retest (If Failed in LLR Test), LLR Endorsement (If already having DL).
Afterwards, AP Transport Learner’s Licence Online Application Form for Fresh Test will appear as follows:-
AP Transport LLR Online Application Form
Here fill all the details, Book Test Slot Online and make the required fee payment to complete the registration process and to appear for the LLR Exam.

On Clearing the LLR Exam, candidates will obtain a Learner’s Licence (LLR). All the candidates can use this LLR Number to apply online for Permanent Driving Licence (DL) directly through the link – AP Transport Fresh Driving Licence (DL) Application Form & Driving Licence (DL) / Learner’s Licence (LLR) Renewal Application Form 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Check LLR Test Slot Availability & Book Online
After making registration for the Learner’s Licence, all the candidates needs to pass an exam conducted by the Licensing Authority. To appear for the exam, candidates must previously book a time slot online as suitable for them. People can check Test Slot Availability Online and also Book A Test Slot through the link given below:-

AP Transport DL / LLR Test Slot
Check Slots availability and Book One Slot for Yourself as shown in the figure:-
AP Transport LLR DL Online Test Slot

After booking a Test Slot, candidate must be physically present for the LLR examination. Upon clearing the examination, candidates will be issued a Learner’s License / Driving Licence by the Licensing Authority.
Check LLR & DL Application Status
Applicants must check their LLR and DL application status regularly to know the exact date and time for issuing of Licence. This could be done by entering their application number or with their ID and other details through the link given below:-

LLR / DL Application Status
The page for checking the DL / LLR Application Status will appear as follows:-
AP Transport LLR DL Status

For finding status with application number, candidates can enter the Service Type (LLR or DL), Application Number and Date of Birth (D.O.B). To check status without application number, candidates can enter Service Type, Search By (Aadhaar Number / Passport Number and Issued Office), Mobile Number and D.O.B. 
References
— Renewal & Duplicate LLR / DL Fees
— AP Transport LLR / DL Forms Download
— AP Transport LLR / DL Print





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh govt. has decided to expand the Free Bicycles Distribution under Badiki Vastha Scheme 2018. Under Bicycle Gift Scheme, all the girls students of government schools studying in Class 8th (VIII) will also get bicylces. Previously, only the girl students of Class 9th (IX) were eligible for this scheme. This scheme will benefit 3.80 lakh girls students in AP state.
The state govt. has launched this scheme to reduce the dropout rate of girls and enhance the enrollment of girl students in higher classes. Free Bicycle Gift Scheme will enable the girls students to easily reach their schools without any difficulty.
School Education Department will implement this Free Bicycle Scheme in order to retain girls in schools till Class 10th.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Badiki Vastha Scheme 2018 – Features
The important features and highlights of AP Free Bicycle Distribution Scheme are as follows:-

School Education Department will gift one free bicycle to each girl student under this scheme.
Only the Class VIII and Class IX Girl Students of government schools are eligible for this scheme from this academic year.
The primary objective is to retain girls in schools till they complete high school studies i.e Class 10th (X).
As per the school records of last academic year, there would be around 1,94,067 girl students in Class 8th and 1,86,715 girls in Class 9th. So, this scheme will benefit 3,80,782 lakh girls in the state.
Govt. will support each and every student to realize their dream of quality education.

Previous year, this scheme has various flaws in its implementation. Govt. has released funds to procure bicycles for 1.80 lakh Class 9th girl students. But School Education Dept. has distributed only 1 lakh bicycles and uploaded photographs of only 50,000 bicycle distribution in the last academic year.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Badiki Vastha Scheme 2018 will resolve the problem of lower enrollment in schools which results in closure and merging of high schools. This year, govt. will focus on successful implementation of this Free Bicycle Scheme to help the govt. school girl students.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh govt. has launched AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme 2018-19 for unemployed youths. This Unemployment Allowance Scheme will benefit the jobless students to get Rs. 1500 per month as Berojgari Bhatta. Interested candidates can see the eligibility criteria, documents list and complete details and make registration at employment exchange. Then candidates can fill the online application form at ap.gov.in 
AP Yuva Sadhikarika Nirudhyoga Bruthi Scheme will benefit around 12 lakh unemployed candidates in Andhra Pradesh. Youths will get this monthly pension to pursue skill development courses and reduce the burden on the family of unemployed youths.
Latest Update – Youth Special Training Program under AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme / Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme to start from 10 December 2018 at 555 centers across the state.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Update – Make AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme Online Registration to get Unemployment Allowance of Rs. 2,000 p.m.
The state govt. has launched this scheme on 2nd December 2017 and registrations are open. Unemployed candidates can make registration as soon as possible. This monthly financial assistance will provide support to the students till the time they get a suitable job.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme 2018-19 Online Registration
AP Nirudyoga Bruthi / Unemployment Allowance is a kind of monthly pension to the jobless students. The state govt. will provide Rs. 1500 to each unemployed candidate in the state irrespective of their caste and religion. To avail the benefits of this scheme, candidates can follow the procedure given below:-

Offline Process – All the jobless candidates needs to make a visit to the employment exchange.
The officials at the unemployment exchange will check whether the candidate is eligible for unemployment allowance by verifying the supporting documents.
Documents List – The documents list includes the 12th class passing certificate, age proof, residence certificate and declaration that the candidate is unemployed.
Non-Eligibility – Any candidate working either in any govt. or private job (at any salary) are not eligible for this unemployment allowance.
After successful verification of documents, officials will confirm the registration of the youth at employment exchange
Afterwards, candidates can fill the application form in both offline or online modes. For online mode, make registration at yuvanestham.ap.gov.in
The online application forms are now available at the official website.

All the jobless youths from Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West Godavari, Guntur, Krishna, Nellore, Prakasam, Kadapa, Kurnool, Chittoor and Anantapur districts will be benefited from this scheme. Moreover, to find a suitable job, unemployed youths can make “Registration” at Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam Portal http://yuvanestham.ap.gov.in/CMyuvaNapp/index.html 
Eligibility Criteria – AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme 2018-19
The candidate must fulfill following eligibility criteria to apply online for Unemployment Allowance Scheme:- 

Only the jobless applicants from the Andhra Pradesh state can apply.
All the applicants must have passed at-least Class 12th or equivalent.
The age of the applicant must lie between 18 to 40 years
Applicants are entitled to receive allowances based upon his / her qualifications.
Only the applicants registered with the employment exchange (registered at AP State Employment Exchange Portal) will receive this monthly pension.

This scheme will cover all the major districts in Andhra Pradesh and the scheme can reach upto 12 lakh candidates. Govt. will give special emphasis on the rural youths and will provide allowance as per their qualifications.
Also Read – AP govt. will launch an Unemployment Pension Scheme – AP Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam Scheme





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh govt. has launched AP YSR Arogya Asara Scheme 2019 to provide relief to poor patients as part of health scheme. Under this Aarogya Aasara Scheme, govt. will provide maximum of Rs. 225 per day or Rs. 5,000 per month for the prescribed relaxation time. It is for the 1st time in the country that govt. will provide relief post hospitalization after surgical operations.
The main objective of AP YSR Arogya Asara Scheme is to ensure that no family suffers financially in case one member becomes sick. Around 4.5 lakh poor people would be benefited from YSR Aarogya Aasara (Post-operative Sustenance) Scheme.
CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has launched AP YSR Arogya Aasara Scheme on 2 November 2019 at Guntur General hospital.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP YSR Arogya Aasara Scheme 2019
As a part of AP govt’s flagship YSR Arogyasri Scheme, the state govt. has launched AP YSR Arogya Asara Scheme. The state govt. will provide Rs. 225 / day or Rs. 5,000 / month to patients for the prescribed relaxation time after discharge from hospitals. At Guntur government hospital, CM has distributed cheques to YSR Arogya Aasara Scheme beneficiaries who had just received treatment.
Though the AP YSR Arogya Asara Scheme has come into effect from 1 December 2019, it is formally launched on 2 Nov 2019. All the accounts of patients are credited with money in 48-hour period of discharge from the hospital. AP govt. has issued guidelines for usage of 836 types of surgeries in 26 separate departments.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

All the beneficiary patients must provide bank account and Aadhaar card details at the time of discharge. In case a bank account is not provided, then the money would be credited into their relative’s bank account. The authorities have already completed all arrangements in the wake of the Chief Minister’s directive to ensure there are no hurdles.

రాష్ట్రంలో మంచి పాలన సాగుతుంటే జీర్ణించుకోలేక నా మతం, కులం గురించి మాట్లాడుతున్నారు. ఈ వేదికగా చెబుతున్నా.. నా మతం మానవత్వం, నా కులం మాట నిలబెట్టుకునే కులం. నేను విన్నాను, ఉన్నాను అనే మాటను నిలబెట్టుకున్నందుకు గర్వంగా ఉంది- YSR ఆరోగ్య ఆసరా ప్రారంభ కార్యక్రమంలో సీఎం వైయస్ జగన్. pic.twitter.com/3zzihwk62r
— CMO Andhra Pradesh (@AndhraPradeshCM) December 2, 2019

AP govt. has also decided to start Nadu Nedu Scheme on 26th December 2019 to develop all the Primary Health Centres, Community Health Centres and Area Hospitals. Ambulances will also be provided to the hospitals where there are no Ambulances. The doctors in all government hospitals should rise to the expectations of the poor patients as AP govt. spends huge amounts on govt. hospitals for welfare of poor patients.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.thehansindia.com/andhra-pradesh/ysr-arogya-aasara-a-unique-program-in-the-country-minister-p-ramachandra-reddy-586504
SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

Free Energy Efficient Pump Sets Scheme (Phase I)Energy Efficient Pump Sets – FeaturesAP Solar Pump Sets Subsidy Scheme
Andhra Pradesh govt. is going to launch Free Energy Efficient Pump Sets Scheme for farmers. Under this scheme, govt. will replace 15 lakh outdated and old traditional agricultural pump sets with new energy efficient pumps. Accordingly, each farmer will get pump set worth Rs. 40,000 absolutely free of cost. AP govt. will implement its first policy for farmers in phases and has allotted a budget of Rs. 6000 crore.
All the farmers in AP state will get 5 years warranty on these pumps. AP govt. announces this scheme on the occasion of Makar Sankranti – 14 January 2018. This free distribution scheme for pumps is going to benefit lakhs of farmers in the state. 
This is another major step of Andhra Pradesh govt. after loan waiver scheme for farmers. This scheme is going to strengthen the agriculture sector.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Free Energy Efficient Pump Sets Scheme (Phase I)
In the initial phase, AP Discoms will replace 4 lakh traditional agricultural pump sets with EE Pump Set during the FY 2018-19. EE Pumps will ease the agricultural process for farmers as they can operate these pump sets even from their home. 
Moreover, these pump sets will further protect farmers from mis-happenings like snake bite etc. which occurs due to late night working. These pump sets will contain the specifications which are described below.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Energy Efficient Pump Sets – Features
An EE Pump Set under Free Energy Efficient Pump Sets Scheme will cost around Rs. 40,000 to the state govt. However, farmers will not have to pay a single penny from their pockets. The salient features of these pump sets are given below:- 

BEE Five-Star rated.
People can operate these pump sets with mobile phones.
This EE pump sets will internally contain a control panel.
Internal SIM Card facility.
30% Energy Saving
Automatic SMS sending capability in case of any Technical Issue.

AP Solar Pump Sets Subsidy Scheme
AP govt. is also planning to introduce a new Solar Pump Sets Subsidy Scheme for farmers. Under this scheme, govt. will provide subsidy on the solar energy pump set worth Rs. 3.12 lakhs. Accordingly, govt. will provide a subsidy of Rs. 2.57 lakh and the remaining amount of Rs 55,000 have to be borne by the farmers themselves.
In addition to this, the state govt. spends approx. Rs. 1.65 lakh in power sector for the welfare of every farmer. Furthermore, govt. has already provided 9,62,712 agriculture pump sets which have High Voltage Distribution Systems (HVDS) with an investment of around Rs. 1 lakh on every pump set. These pumps reduces the motor burning incidents and interruption and thus allow regular voltage supply.
AP govt. is making every possible effort to provide facility of drinking water for every house and irrigation facility for every agricultural land. Accordingly, govt. is providing reliable power supply to the farmers which has resulted in achieving growth rate of 11.61% during FY 2016-17.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

Cost of Houses Under NTR Housing Scheme 2017-2018NTR Housing Scheme 2017-2018 ULBs – List of DistrictsOther Details
Andhra Pradesh Government has sanctioned another 1.02 lakh houses under the AP NTR Housing Scheme 2017-2018. Subsequently, govt. will provide these houses to the Urban local Bodies (ULBs) across several districts. Accordingly, all these houses will get linked to the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Housing for All (PMAY-HFA) (Urban). Central govt. will spend Rs. 1544.66 crore for the construction purpose of these houses. 
People can construct these 1,02,977 houses with financial assistance as subsidy from the Central govt., State govt. and loans from banks. Govt. has allotted these houses to the 8 districts.
AP wants to fulfill its promise of construction of 19 lakh houses before the next General Elections. AP govt. will construct these homes in 84 Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) with a total expenditure of Rs. 56,000 crores.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Cost of Houses Under NTR Housing Scheme 2017-2018
The distribution of the cost of houses is as follows:-


Central Govt. Assistance as Subsidy
Rs. 1.5 Lakh


State Govt. Assistance as Subsidy
Rs. 1 Lakh


Loan Amount to the Beneficiary
Rs. 75,000


Contribution of the Beneficiary
Rs. 25,000


Total Construction Cost of Each House
Rs. 3.50 Lakh


Govt. decides to give liberty to the beneficiaries to chose the design of the houses as per the site conditions. Accordingly, each house must contain a bed room, hall along with Kitchen, bathroom and toilet having a carpet area of at-least 30 sq meters. Moreover, housing dept. will also give some house designs (Naksha) to the beneficiaries. However if there is any constraint of site, govt. will allow G+1 (Ground Floor + 1 Storey) to the single beneficiary.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

NTR Housing Scheme 2017-2018 ULBs – List of Districts
AP govt. has allotted these houses to the ULBs of districts whose names are as follows:-


List of Districts


Srikakulam
East Godavari


West Godavari
Krishna


Guntur
Prakasam


Nellore
Chittoor


Kadapa
Anantapur


Other Details
Andhra Pradesh govt. is going to realize the dream of common man of having his own house in the state. Accordingly, govt. aims to construct 13,66,557 houses in rural areas and 5,39,286 houses in urban areas (Total – 19 lakh) houses. For this, govt. will incur an expenditure of Rs. 56,000 crore for construction purposes. Furthermore, govt. wants to complete this project in a given time period before next general elections.
AP govt. is planning to provide around 2.5 lakh houses on Sankranti, other 2.5 lakh houses on 8 June 2018 and remaining homes to the poor people on World Habitation Day. Furthermore as per the directions of Municipal administration dept., all the District collectors will help the people to get loans from banks easily and in a hassle free manner. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh Government has launched Fiber Grid Scheme to cover every household in the state. Subsequently, govt. will provide 3 basic facilities – high-speed broadband service (Internet), television service (Cable TV) and telephone service (Voice Calls) at cheap prices. Accordingly, this yojana will cover 1.30 crore households, 10000 govt. offices, 50000 schools and 5000 public health care centers in the state till 2018. 
AP govt. installs Optical Fibre Cable of around 23800 Km in 13 districts accompanying 2464 substations. This scheme will provide all the 3 services in a single package. Accordingly, this plan will lie between Rs. 149 to Rs. 599. 
Ap govt. will start fiber grid plans for normal users, institutions and private offices. In addition to this, Andhra Pradesh State FiberNet Limited (APSFL) will look after the works of AP Fiber Grid. This scheme will turn the entire state into a “Wi-fi” Center.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Fiber Grid Scheme Plans
The state govt. has divided the monthly rental plans for households and institutions – Basic, Standard & Premium. The details of the plan are as follows:-

Plan For Households – AP govt. will provide plans ranging from Rs. 149 to Rs. 599 to the families whose details are as follows:-

Basic Plan – This plan is of Rs. 149 with download speed of 15 Mbps up to specific limit of 5 GB.
Standard Plan – This plan is of Rs. 399 which offers data limit of 25 GB at download speed of 15 Mbps.
Premium Plan – The given plan of Rs. 599 offering data limit of 50 GB at 15 Mbps download speed.
Households can use the FUP unlimited date at 1 Mbps.


Plan For Institutions / Private Offices – The state govt. has decided plans ranging from Rs. 999 to Rs. 2499 to the households whose details are as follows:-

Basic Plan – The given basic plan is of Rs. 999 with 100 Mbps download speed up to 50 GB usage along with FUP speed of 1 Mbps.
Standard Plan – This plan is of Rs. 1499 with data limit of 100 GB at download speed of 100 Mbps. Moreover, FUP limit is 2 Mbps.
Premium Plan – This premium plan for private offices is available at Rs. 2499 having maximum data usage of 250 GB at 100 Mbps download speed. Private offices can utilize the FUP unlimited date rate at 3 Mbps.


Candidates can see the plan details in the image as shown below:-
AP Fiber Grid Scheme Plans

This AP Fiber Grid Scheme will also provide 250 television channels absolutely free. Moreover, this scheme also provides unlimited telephone calls. This scheme is already providing services in Anantapur, Chittoor, East Godavari, Guntur, Kadapa, Krishna, Kurnool, Nellore, Prakasam, Srikakulam, Vishakapatnam, Vizianagaram and West Godavari.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP Yuva Sadhikarika Nirudyoga Bhruthi Scheme FeaturesYuva Sadhikarika Nirudyoga Bhruthi Scheme Application ProcedureEligibility Criteria
The state govt. of Andhra Pradesh is going to launch AP Yuva Sadhikarika Nirudyoga Bhruthi Unemployment Allowance Scheme. Accordingly, each unemployed youth will get an allowance of Rs 1500 per month till the time candidates they will get job. Subsequently, Andhra Pradesh govt. will launch this scheme in order to benefit around 10 lakh educated and job-less candidates.
The primary objective of this scheme is to provide financial support in the form of monthly pension to eligible unemployed candidates of the state. For the successful implementation of this scheme, govt. agencies will collect age wise data of jobless candidates.
All the candidates between the age group of 18-35 years can apply for this scheme. This scheme is applicable to only 1 unemployed candidate in a family who has passed the senior secondary (12th) examination. Furthermore, Andhra Pradesh govt. will give this financial assistance so that the candidates can pursue skill development. This scheme will surely result in getting appropriate job for jobless youths.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Yuva Sadhikarika Nirudyoga Bhruthi Scheme Features
Below are the highlights and important features of AP Yuva sadhikarika nirudyoga bhruthi scheme:-

As per the draft tabled at Legislative assembly on 29 November 2017, state govt. will provide Rs 1500 as monthly pension / stipend.
Candidates will have to make registration at employment exchange or online registration (exactly not known).
Subsequently, only the jobless candidates will receive the benefits till the time they get a job. In addition to this, one unemployed candidate from a family is permissible.
Moreover, govt. will also provide skill training, internship and on the job training to provide employment opportunities to the students.
Accordingly, this scheme is going to benefit around 10 lakh unemployed candidates of the state.
For this reason, the state govt. will create a database to store the age-wise data of the candidates.
Afterwards, a chance would be given to the candidates to provide voluntary service in several community welfare works and other development works in various rural areas.
Furthermore, AP govt. will give time to the candidates to complete the formalities at the Employment exchange and get registered under this scheme.

To see more details on the AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme 2018-19 Online Registration – Click Here 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Yuva Sadhikarika Nirudyoga Bhruthi Scheme Application Procedure
The state govt. does not releases exact enrollment process for this scheme. However as per the previous scheme, candidates may have to make online registrations or also can register through employment exchange. After the completion of the Registration process, candidates should submit the proof of unemployment to avail the benefits.
Eligibility Criteria
To avail the benefits of this scheme, candidates must fulfill the given below eligibility criteria:-

Residence – Only the Andhra Pradesh Residents can apply for this scheme.
Minimum Educational Qualification – All the candidates who have passed the Senior Secondary (12th class) from a recognized Board can apply for this unemployment allowance.
Permissible Age Limit – Only the candidates between age group of 18 to 35 years can apply for this scheme

This Yuva Sadhikarika Nirudyoga Bhruthi Scheme is launched for the welfare of jobless candidates. Furthermore, the state govt. is also focusing to create employment opportunities for unemployed candidates in the state.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

Eligibility Criteria of Chandranna Pellikanuka SchemeDocument List for Chandranna Pelli kanukaHighlights of Chandranna Pellikanuka Scheme
The state government of Andhra Pradesh has all set to launch Chandranna Pellikanuka Scheme for backward classes which will provide them financial assistance at marriage. This scheme will be launched on the day of the new year 2018. The objective of the scheme is to provide a monetary incentive of Rs. 30,000 for the girls of Backward Classes during their marriage. 
Under the scheme, the state government will select 40,000 couples from Backward Class across the state to provide them financial assistance of Rs. 30,000 on the occasion of their marriage. Moreover, the CM of Andhra Pradesh has made an announcement to Kapu students will be enabled with scholarships similar to BC students. 
Under Chandranna Pelli kanuka Scheme, the government will provide 20% of Pelli kanuka before marriage and 80% on the day of marriage. In addition, The government will also provide Rs. 2 lakh compensation for natural death under the Chandranna Bima. To get the benefit of the scheme will have to submit the application form by online mode epass.apcfss.in or by going to any Mee Seva center.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Eligibility Criteria of Chandranna Pellikanuka Scheme
Below given some steps of eligibility:-

This scheme is only girls of BPL category in the state.
The beneficiary should have White Ration cards under the poverty line.
The bride must be above 18 years of age and the groom above 21.
The minimum educational qualification of Class X should be compulsory.
This scheme only to people of below poverty line and who have white ration card.

Document List for Chandranna Pelli kanuka
The candidate has to visit the MEESEVA Center with the required documentation to get the benefit of the scheme as given below:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Birth Certificate which issued by Competent Authority through the MEESEVA Center.
Caste Certificate which also issued by the Competent Authority through MEESEVA Center.
A copy of Wedding Card.
A Copy of Aadhaar Card of both the bride and bridegroom and a photograph of both.
An update income certificate of the family from all source.

Highlights of Chandranna Pellikanuka Scheme
The government has made some feature regarding the scheme as given below:-

This scheme will launch on the day of new year 2018.
In the financial year of in 2017-18, the government will select 40,000 marriages in the state. 
The government will spend Rs. 120 crore on the implementation of the scheme.
under the scheme, all marriage will make their registration in the office of marriage registered.

Besides this, the state government has also announced numerous other schemes for the welfare of people of the state. In addition, the government also managed virtual classrooms facilities in the schools. The virtual classrooms project will have to be implemented in selected municipal schools in the state with the cost of Rs. 160 crore. 
In addition, the state government has also approved AP migrants welfare and development policy. The government will also provide Rs. 40 crore to implement the scheme. The objective of this policy is to the welfare, safety, and rehabilitation of the Non-Resident Telugu (NRT) people in the state. 
The Government will make arrangement to provide skill development training for all NRT so that they can earn enough income to survive. As per official data, around 25 lakh NRTs will get the direct benefit of this policy. The government is going to launch the Anna canteens in 2018. It provided 29 lakh gas connections with a cost of Rs. 474 crore.
Apart from this, An APNRT Insulin scheme will also be set up in the state. If anybody dies or gets injured, he or the kin will be paid Rs. 10 lakh. Andhra Pradesh government has also announced a pension scheme for the transgender community under which they will get Rs. 1000 per month. This scheme will launch in January 2018. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

The state government of Andhra Pradesh has launched Swachha Andhra Mission on the lines of Swachh Bharat Mission of central government. The mission was launched on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti on 2nd October 2017. Under the Swachha Andhra Mission, the government would make efforts to make the state clean and free of filth.
PV Sindhu, the Olympic medal winner in Badminton has been chosen as the brand ambassador of the Swachha Andhra Mission. The Swachha Andhra Mission will also ensure the healthy and better life for the state residents by making the city cleaner. PV Sindhu participated in the Swachhate Seva event with the chief minister which was held on 2nd October.
The parent scheme Swachh Bharat Mission which was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi three years ago on 2nd October has proved to be a very good initiative towards make India a clean and beautiful country. Several organizations, public and private sector companies and even individuals have started doing their bit towards making Swachh Bharat Mission a successful initiative.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Andhra Pradesh government also want to make the state Open Defecation Free by March 2018 for which it will construct about 22 Lakh toilets across the state till then. The government also want to provide all the facilities to the villages such as electricity, roads, gas and others before 2019 elections.
The CM urged the residents of the state to make Swachha Andhra Mission successful by taking a pledge to spare time for maintaining cleanliness in their respective areas.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

The state government of Andhra Pradesh has introduced a new scheme to upgrade the careers of assistant and associate professors in government medical colleges across the state. The assistance and associate professors working in government medical colleges in Andhra Pradesh will be provided higher qualification and upgrade their career.
The main objective of the career advancement scheme is to upgrade the qualification of the faculty and enhance the medical PG seats in the state. THE state government has taken the step to launch the scheme after getting denials several times from the Medical Council of India (MCI) to increase the PG seats in the state.
The MCI has been denying the sanction of more seats to the state because of unavailability of adequately qualified faculty for the postgraduate medical courses. Most of the government medical colleges in the state have shortage of medical professors who are adequately qualified to teach post graduate medical subjects.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state medical education department has sent a proposal to the government to promote the assistance professors who have completed at least 5 years in service. The assistance professors would be designated as associate professors while associate professors and professors would also be promoted in similar manner. Having enough faculty for the PG courses and fulfilling The MCI guidelines will enable the state to get more PG seats.
There are only 80 seats in 10 government medical colleges across the state while offering 1550 seats for MBBS. The AP govt. recently sent a proposal to the MCI to increase 40 more seats in the Guntur medical college but MCI denied the proposal because of the lack of adequate faculty. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The career advancement scheme would help the faculty upgrade their skills and career and get qualified as professors as per the norms of Medical Council of India. 
More information about the career advancement scheme can be found on the official website of directorate of medical education of Andhra Pradesh at http://dme.ap.nic.in
SOURCE: http://www.pharmabiz.com/NewsDetails.aspx?aid=104546&sid=1 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

The state government of Andhra Pradesh is planning to launch a “Transgenders Pensions Scheme” for the transgender community. The main aim of this scheme is to provide equality and better living standards to transgender persons in the state. 
According to the census of 2011, above 9% of the total transgender population of the country is found in the state of Andhra Pradesh. The literacy rate of transgender community stands at 53.33% in the state. According to the data, the more inequality is found due to rural and urban areas literacy rate for third gender in the state. 
Infact, the most number of transgender people lives in very bad condition due to social exclusion. For this reason, this pension scheme will ensure that the social security benefits are provided to all the transgender members. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Transgenders Pensions Scheme
Transgenders Pensions Scheme will provide a financial assistance of certain amount for transgender community per month. However, the certainty of the amount and eligibility criteria will be fixed by the government at time of framing of the pension scheme. The government is planning to evolve them in a mechanism for their social, economic and educational empowerment. In addition to this, this scheme will also deal with the problems of the transgender population across the state.
The transgender community faces many issue on a daily basis including exclusion, sexual abuse and harassment from society. In order to provide a better standard of living, government should provide them with better facilities. For this reason, govt should end discrimination in the fields of education, jobs, access to burial grounds, separate bathrooms, etc. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The pension scheme will provide them with financial help and encouragement to live a stable life in the state. Moreover, the primary objective of this scheme is to ensure that the members of the transgender community will get the financial support and opportunity to lead a better life.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP Unemployment Allowance SchemeAP Unemployment Allowance Scheme Application FormEligibility for Unemployment Allowance Scheme
The Andhra Pradesh government is planning to launch the much awaited Unemployment Allowance Scheme on Independence day at Tirupati. The objective behind the scheme is to provide monthly financial assistance to the unemployed youth across the state. Under the scheme, the state government would provide a certain amount as unemployment allowance to each eligible unemployed youth until he/she gets a job.
Since a long time, the youths were waiting for the unemployment allowance scheme as it was announced earlier. This scheme surely could lessen the burden on unemployed youth and help them find a job at the earliest. This scheme will financially help the youth to get skill training for better chances of getting a job.
Latest Update – AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme 2018-19 Online Registration – View Details



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state government under the scheme may provide Rs. 2000 per month to each eligible post-graduate unemployed youth and in the state until they gets a job or a maximum of 2-3 years. Graduate youth will get Rs. Rs. 1,500 while an intermediate pass to get Rs. 1,000 as the allowance.
AP Unemployment Allowance Scheme
Below are some of the basic highlights of Andhra Pradesh unemployment allowance scheme


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

– The post – graduate youth will receive Rs. 2,000 per month, graduate youth Rs. 1,500 and an intermediate pass to get Rs. 1,000 per month.
– An SSC pass will also be eligible for allowance but the financial assistance amount has not been decided for them.
– Those youths who have made their registration at Andhra Pradesh Employment Exchange would be eligible for the scheme.
– However, the state govt. is providing time to the candidates to get the formalities completed who has not made yet their registration at Andhra Pradesh Employment Exchange.
AP Unemployment Allowance Scheme Application Form
The application forms for the unemployment allowance scheme in Andhra Pradesh may be invited through any of the online or offline modes. The application forms and exact procedure would be available only after the scheme is launched.
The links to download the application form or online application would be updated as soon as the scheme is launched by the government.
Eligibility for Unemployment Allowance Scheme

The candidate should belong to the state of Andhra Pradesh.
The age of the candidates should be between 18-40 years.
The candidate shall get allowances depending upon his/her qualification.
The youth must be registered with the employment exchange of Andhra Pradesh.

Under the scheme, the state government will provide financial assistance only for 2 – 3 years. This assistance will be given to only one unemployed person in a family. There are around 12 lakh unemployed youth in the state at present according to the government data.
Through Unemployment allowance scheme, the state government will help by providing financial support to unemployable youth to overcome any difficulties in getting a job.
According to the official notification, the state government can ask the youth while giving scheme benefits if they are interested in providing voluntary service to the society for the welfare of people.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh Government is planning to launch an unemployment allowance scheme for the jobless youth in the state. Andhra Pradesh govt. would provide a monthly allowance of up to rs. 2000 per jobless youth until they gets a job. Andhra Pradesh state cabinet has decided to launch the unemployment allowance scheme with an initial budget of Rs. 500 Crore.
However, the exact date of launch has not been decided yet but the unemployment allowance scheme would begin by the end of July this year. The state government is working on collecting the data of unemployed youth in the state.
Latest Update – AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme 2018-19 Online Registration – View Details



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Unemployment Allowance Scheme Andhra Pradesh
There are about 12 Lakh unemployed youth in the state who might be benefited under the scheme. The government is preparing the age-wise breakup of the data of unemployed youth. Govt. would also see if they have skills or not and whether they are registered with employment exchange or not.
After collecting all the data, the state government would decide the exact amount of monthly stipend to be provided to unemployed/jobless youth. The government would also study such unemployment allowance scheme being run in West Bengal and Tamilnadu before launching its own scheme.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Highlights of Unemployment Allowance Scheme

Monthly allowance amount under the scheme may be fixed at Rs. 2000, more than what unemployed youth gets in West Bengal and Tamilnadu.
The assistance would be provided for 2-3 years or until the person gets a job, whichever is less.
Youth registered with employment exchange for last 5 years would be given preference under the scheme.
Only one unemployed person in the family would be eligible to receive the scheme benefits.
Beneficiaries would be given chances to volunteer to do any community work.
Beneficiaries might be requested to contribute in community development projects in villages.

Andhra Pradesh government has also allocated Rs 398 crore to provide skill and entrepreneur training to unemployed youth. There are several other steps being taken by the state govt. to ensure more job opportunities for youth.
The current government of TDP has promised the unemployment allowance scheme in its 2014 election manifesto.
SOURCE: http://indianexpress.com/article/india/andhra-pradesh-govt-to-give-monthly-stipend-to-unemployed-youths/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP Jagan Anna Vasati Deevena Scheme 2020AP Jagananna Vidya Deevena Scheme 2020AP YSR Kapu Nestam SchemeAP Vahana Mitra Scheme Phase 2
Andhra Pradesh govt. will launch Jagananna Vasathi Deevena Scheme on 24 February 2020. This scheme will help ITI / Polytechnic / Degree students with their hostel and mess charges in institutions. AP cabinet committee has also approved 2 other schemes namely Jagan Anna Vidya Deevena Scheme and YSR Kapu Nestam Scheme. 
All the students will get financial assistance directly into the bank account of their mothers. AP YSR cabinet also approved allocation of Rs 2,300 crore every year for AP Jagananna Vasathi Deevana Scheme. More than 58,091 students from 153 colleges in district would be benefited from Vasati Deevena Scheme.
Under Jagan Anna Vasati Deevena Scheme, AP govt. will give the specified amount to students in 2 equal installments in the month of February and July. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Jagan Anna Vasati Deevena Scheme 2020
The important features and highlights of AP Jaganna Vasathi Deevena Scheme:-

The state govt. will help students in paying off their hostel and mess charges. The assistance amount (per year) is given as follows:-

ITI students will receive Rs. 10,000 (Rs. 5,000 in 1st phase & Rs. 5,000 in 2nd phase).
Diploma / Polytechnic students will get Rs. 15,000 in 2 equal installments.
Degree students will get Rs. 20,000 (Rs. 10,000 in 1st Phase & Rs. 10,000 in 2nd phase).


The Jagananna Vasathi Deevena Scheme amount would be paid in two installments. 1st installment to be given in the month of February and 2nd installment to be given in July.
This amount would be given into the bank account of student’s mother.

The allocation for AP Jagananna Vasati Deevena Scheme is increased by Rs. 1500 crore as compared to allocation made by TDP government. A total number of 11,44,490 students are expected to get benefit from Jagan Anna Vidya Deevena Scheme and Jagananna Vasathi Deevena Scheme.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Jagananna Vidya Deevena Scheme 2020
Under Jagan Anna Vidya Deevena Scheme, AP govt. will provide 100% fee reimbursement to students. All the students belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, backward classes, minorities, Kapus, economically backward classes and differently-abled categories will be reimbursed. AP cabinet committee has allocated Rs. 3400 crore for full fee reimbursement scheme. This fee reimbursement will be extended to students pursuing B Tech, B Pharmacy, M Tech, M Pharmacy, MBA, MCA, BEd and such courses.
Any student whose annual family income is less than Rs. 2.5 lakh are eligible under Jagan Anna Vidya Deevena Scheme. All those students which have 10 acres of wetland and 25 acres of dry land are also eligible for the benefit. There is no income limit for students hailing from families of sanitation works and those who are professionally dependent on taxi, auto, and tractor. However, The income taxpayers will not be eligible.
AP YSR Kapu Nestam Scheme
AP cabinet also approves YSR Kapu Nestam Scheme for women from Kapu, Balija, Telaga, Ontari communities. Under this scheme, women b/w age of 45 to 60 years will be given an assistance of Rs. 15,000 per annum. Each beneficiary will get Rs 75,000 in five years to help them improve their living conditions. The cabinet approved implementation of YSR Kapu Nestham scheme with an allocation of Rs 1,101 crore and Rs 900 crore every year thereafter. 
AP Vahana Mitra Scheme Phase 2
AP govt. has also allocated Rs. 63 crore for implementation of Vahana Mitra Scheme Phase 2 for auto, taxi, maxi cab owners cum drivers. Under this scheme, each driver / owner will get Rs. 10,000 per annum for annual maintenance of their vehicles. A total amount of Rs. 236 crore is distributed to beneficiaries in these two phases of Vahana Mitra Scheme. The registration process for AP Vahana Mitra Scheme beneficiaries will continue next year.
In addition to this AP Navaratanalu’s Pedhalandariki Illu (Housing Scheme) scheme also got approved and Rs. 25 lakh houses to be constructed. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Badikostha is a new initiative by the state government of Andhra Pradesh under which bicycles would be provided to the girls students in the state. The state government under the Badikostha scheme would distribute about 1.82 lakh bicycles to the girl students across the state.
The free bicycle scheme has been launched by the Andhra Chief Minister on 17th April 2017 from Vijaywada during a public gathering. As many as 1,81,556 cycles will be distributed under the Badikostha scheme to students of 5,628 schools including 246 government schools, 4,432 ZP schools, 319 municipal schools, 471 aided schools and 160 model schools at a cost of Rs. 74.93 crore,
Badikostha Bicycle Scheme – Objectives
The main objective of the scheme is to encourage girls to continue their education and reduce the number of dropouts. Through the distribution of free bicycles under the Badikostha Bicycle Scheme, the state government aims to drag the attention of large section of common public, both in rural and urban areas.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Under the Badikostha Bicycle Scheme, the stet government would distribute bicycles to 9th grade girl students in the government schools. The feedback of girl students about difficulties in pursuing their studies was also one of the biggest reasons behind the launch of the scheme. The girl students mentioned transportation as a major hurdle for pursuing their education.
The Badikostha bicycle scheme would help the students reach their schools but also remove some of the financial burden from parents. The scheme is aimed at making the state a “Knowledge State – Education Hub” by reducing the number of school and college dropouts.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

Arogya Raksha Health Insurance SchemeArogya Raksha Premium AmountApply Online for Arogya RakshaList of Hospitals & Procedures under NTR Arogya Raksha Scheme
The state government of Andhra Pradesh has launched Arogya Raksha, a universal health insurance scheme for the people of the state. The Arogya Raksha scheme would cover people Above Poverty Line to provide them an insurance coverage of up to Rs. 2 Lakh per annum. The scheme was announced by the Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu on New Year, 1st January 2017.
Arogya Raksha Health Insurance Scheme
The main objective of Arogya Raksha scheme is to cover the APL families in the state and provide them the health insurance. Through the scheme, the state government aims to ensure “Health for All” by providing them insurance coverage at a negligible premium amount.
A total of 1044 diseases would be covered under the Arogya Raksha scheme. There are a total of 432 hospitals including 80 government general hospitals which have been empaneled for the implementation of the scheme. The Arogya Raksha scheme would provide health insurance coverage to about 35 Lakh APL families in the state.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Arogya Raksha Premium Amount
To avail the Arogya Raksha scheme benefits, every individual would be required to pay Rs. 100 per month or Rs. 1200 per annum. TO avail the family benefits, ever individual in the family would be required to pay Rs. 1200 per annum as the policy premium.
The World Health Organisation, Bill Gates Foundation and other noted health organizations are supporting the government in implementing this scheme.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Apply Online for Arogya Raksha
Registrations for Arogya Raksha scheme are being invited and the interested applicants should enroll themselves into the scheme between January 1st and February 28th. The coverage period would however starts from 1st April 2017. The applications are being invited through Mee seva centers across the state.
There are a total of 5481 Mee Seva Centers across the state where the application forms for Arogya Raksha scheme can be filled. The list of Mee Seva centers in the state can be found by visiting the link below.
List of Mee Seva Centers
Arogya Raksha scheme would be linked to the Aadhar Number of the beneficiaries and in order to avail the cashless treatment through the scheme, one only needs to show their Aadhar number at any of the empaneled private and government hospitals.
Online applications for Arogya Raksha Scheme
The interested applicants can also apply online for the Arogya Raksha scheme using the following step by step procedure.
STEP 1: Visit the following link to open the website for online application/registration
Arogya Raksha Online Registration
STEP 2: Enter your Aadhar Number and click “Check Aadhar” button. As shown in the image below
Arogya Raksha Scheme
STEP 3: After clicking “Check Aadhar” button, you will get an OTP (One Time Password) on your registered mobile number. Enter the OTP an click the “Verify Button”.
If your mobile number is not registered, you will be required to visit the nearest Mee-Seva center and get your mobile number registered against your Aadhar Number.
STEP 4: Once, OTP is verified, you will see family details on the next screen along the images of family members. Here you can click “Apply Arogya Raksha” to register for the scheme.
STEP 5: If you are eligible for the scheme, you may proceed to pay the premium through online payment gateway. OR, if you are not eligible, screen will show a message that “FAIL, You are not eligible to register in the scheme”.
STEP 6: Pay the premium amount online and you will get a Arogya Raksha Claim Number.
STEP 7: YOU ARE DONE! Use this claim number or your Aadhar Number to receive cashless treatment for covered diseases for up to Rs. 2 Lakh.
List of Hospitals & Procedures under NTR Arogya Raksha Scheme
The detailed list of government & private hospitals and covered medical procedure & packages can be found at the below links.
List of Government Hospitals | List of Private Hospitals | List of Procedures | Follow-Up Packages
For more information about NTR Arogya Raksha health insurace scheme, please visit the following link
http://www.ntrvaidyaseva.ap.gov.in/aarogya-raksha





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

The government of Andhra Pradesh is leaving no stone unturned to improve the living condition of citizens in the state. There are several things which need to be improved if it wants to improve the living standard of people and the most important of them is health.
Andariki Aarogyam
This is why the government has decided to launch a dedicated health insurance scheme – Andariki Aarogyam – to bring some improvement in the health sector. 
The government is working under the guidance of Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu to launch the Andariki Aarogyam scheme under which health insurance will be provided to all families that are currently not covered under the Central Government’s scheme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Under the new health insurance scheme – which will be reportedly launched on January 1, 2017 – people will be able to get a health insurance by spending just Rs 100 as premium per head in the family. 
Those who are willing to get benefits of the health scheme can enroll their names. Officials would complete the process of enrollment and collect premium in first two months. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The health scheme, expected to best global health insurance practice, will be launched with the involvement of World Health Organisation, Bill Gates foundation and other noted health organizations.
It is estimated that the health scheme would cost Rs.160.56 crore. The final decision will be taken in the cabinet meeting and the government is expected to be sanctioned in next budget.
This is really great step by the Andhra Pradesh government to the families of the state and lakhs of people are expected to be benefited by Andariki Aarogyam scheme. 
The government has also clarified that no one will be forced to take the insurance; instead it is planning to make people aware about the benefits and importance of health insurance. 
Swasta Vidya Vahini
Apart from this Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu is planning to introduce ‘Swasta Vidya Vahini’ (SVV) scheme to offer healthy food to school students in the state.
Under the scheme, nutritious food will be distributed to the students studying in various schools at over 222 locations across the state. Apart from providing healthy foods, the scheme aims at inculcating healthy habits in children.
For this, nearly 45,000 medical students from MBBS, PG medical courses, and the nursing stream will participate in the programme. These students would visit villages to create awareness among the kids and elders about individual cleanliness and keeping the surroundings clean. The NTR University has been directed to make proper arrangements for the programme.
The government has already launched nearly two dozen such scheme in the state for the betterment of the people and is planning to start more such programs in the coming days. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

The state government of Andhra Pradesh is planning to launch a new scheme for distribution of energy efficient tubelights at subsidized rates. The government would launch the new scheme to distribute energy efficient tubelights at kiosks across the state. The tubelights will be available against a payment of Rs. 250 per unit.
The actual cost of the tubelights in the open market is Rs. 500 to 600 per unit but the government will provide those at about half the actual cost. The programme will be launched during the energy conversation week celebration between December 14 to 20.
The main objective of the scheme is to save energy so that the overall cost can be lowered down for both consumers and the government. The scheme may provide a great relief in the electricity bill to those still using the conventional tubelights as the main lighting source.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

There is not much information right now about the energy efficient tubelights scheme because it is not launched yet. Once the scheme is launched, more details will be updated here.
However, the scheme will surely of great help for those looking to save electricity bills of their households but not able to buy the energy efficient tubelights at high market prices.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh Government is planning to launch a new health insurance scheme named as “Health for All” from new Year, i.e. 1st January 2017. The scheme will be aimed at covering those outside of the recently launched Chandranna Bima Yojana.
According to the Medical and Health Minister Kamineni Srinivas, people who are not covered under any health insurance policy are demanding a relief fund to meet the medical and healthcare related expenses. Health for All scheme would be launched to cater to the needs of such population.
Objective of Health for All Insurance Scheme
The main objective of the scheme is to cover those who are not covered under any healthcare policy in the state. The state government under the scheme aims to provide financial assistance to meet the medical expenses of the policy holder.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Premium and Benefits of Health for All Insurance Scheme
The state government has kept the premium of the scheme very low so that it can be afforded by almost everyone in the state. The premium amount for availing the health cover facility under the scheme would be just Rs. 95 per month per individual.
The state government would provide benefits of up to Rs. 2 Lakh under the health for all insurance scheme.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Everyone can enroll in the scheme, there is no bar on the age to get enrolled under the scheme. The scheme will be formally launched in January 1st, 2017. People will be given two month time to get themselves enrolled under the Health for all insurance scheme, i.e. 1st January to 28 February 2017.
The scheme will then be implemented from 1st March.
Complete details about the state government’s new health insurance scheme such an empaneled hospitals, how to apply will be available once the scheme is launched on January 1st.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

Objective of AP Free Smartphone SchemeHow to Apply for AP Free Smartphone YojanaEligibility for Andhra Pradesh Free Smartphone Scheme
Similar to Samajwadi Smartphone Yojana in UP and Captain Smart Connect Scheme in Punjab, Andhra Pradesh Government is also planning to launch a new free smartphone scheme in the state. Focus on cashless digital economy, the state government has taken this decision of launching free smartphone scheme for students.
Objective of AP Free Smartphone Scheme
The main objective of the scheme is to enable youth in the state to transect and connect digitally. The government through the free smartphone scheme for students wants to increase the digital literacy and make Andhra Pradesh a digital state. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister is taking this step to fulfill the dream of Shri Narendra Modi of making India a cashless economy.
The state government would provide free smartphones under the scheme to students belonging to the BPL (Below Poverty Line) category of the society.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

There are many intelligent students belonging to the poor families who are unable to live up to their potential because of lack of financial support and resources. Hence, providing free smartphones to the poor students will help fulfill at least some of their dreams. The phones will also help them connected and gain knowledge through internet.
How to Apply for AP Free Smartphone Yojana
Similar to smartphone schemes in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, applications for the scheme will be invited through online modes. The state government would launch a web portal to display scheme information and accept applications from the poor students.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The application process would be very simple, the applicants would be required to fill in some basic details, attach their photograph and valid required documents on the website. An alternate phone number will also be required to share the OTP, registration number and status of their application through SMS.
After the registration is successful, an SMS containing the registration ID will be sent to the alternate mobile number filled by the applicant. The unique registration ID will also be displayed on the screen for the applicant to not it down for future references.
Eligibility for Andhra Pradesh Free Smartphone Scheme
Below is the eligibility criteria for for AP free smartphone scheme.

The applicant should be permanent resident of Andhra Pradesh
The applicant should be a student with valid student identity card.
The applicant should belong to a BPL household and should present related documents.

Quick Details about AP Free Smartphone Scheme


Scheme Facts
Detailed Information


Scheme Name
Andhra Pradesh Free Smartphone Scheme


To be launched by 
Chief Minister of AP, Shri N. Chandrababu Naidu


Launch Date
To be Launched Soon


Objective
To increase cashless transactions and increase digital literacy in the state


Beneficiaries of the scheme
60 Lakh Poor students belonging to BPL families


What is provides under the scheme
Free Smartphone


Application mode
Online


Application Fee
None


Official Website
To be launched soon


Note: The official portal has not be launched for the scheme yet, once it is launched, we will update the registration link here only.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Badiki Vastha, a new scheme has been announced by the state government of Andhra Pradesh to encourage girl child education in the state. Under the Badiki Vastha scheme, the state government would provide free bicycles to every girl child studying in class 9th in the state.
Free bicycle would be provided to the girl students of 9th class studying in government, aided, ZPP, Municipal and other model schools in the state. The state government has allocated Rs. 74.92 crores for the implementation of the scheme.
As Andhra Pradesh is one of the leading states with high number of Girl students dropouts, the state government aims to decrease the number through this initiative.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Such schemes of providing free bicycles to girl students are already under implementation in Gujarat, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and some other states.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

 




(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

Chandranna Bima Yojana – BenefitsEligibility for Chandranna Bima YojanaApplication FormChandranna Bima Yojana Advertisement
A new insurance scheme for labourers in the unorganised sector is all set to be launched by the state government of Andhra Pradesh. The scheme will be launched from August 1 to benefit 1.5 crore such labourers.
Named as “Chandranna Bima Yojana”, will be launched on August 1 to benefit labourors in unorganized sectors such as agricultural labourers, artisans, small self-employed people, petty traders, vendors, hamals and shop employees and similar people.
Chandranna Bima Yojana – Benefits
The scheme benefits can be availed by the workers by paying just Rs. 15 in the labour department. Below are the main benefits of the Chandranna Bima Yojana for Unorganised workers in the age group of 18 to 59 years (as per AABY norms). 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


The scheme will provide an insurance cover of Rs. 5 Lakh in case of accidental death or total disability in the accident. The kin of the insurer would get Rs. 5 Lakh compensation.
The insurer would be paid Rs. 3,62,500 in case of partial disability. If the natural death occurs to the insures, the kin would get Rs. 30,000.
Above are not the only benefits, in addition, two children of the insurer will be provided scholarships at Rs. 1,200 a year from Class IX to XII.

Benefits for Unorganised workers in the age group of 60 to 70 years are
– Accident Death and Total Disability relief: Rs. 4.25 lakh.
– Partial Disability relief: up to Rs.3,25,000/-
– Natural death relief and scholarship: None as per AABY norms.
The insurance premium of Rs. 132 Crore will be paid by the state government to the identified insurance company on behalf of the beneficiaries of Chandranna Bima Yojana.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Eligibility for Chandranna Bima Yojana
Workers in the age group of 18 to 70 years covered by the definition of unorganised worker are eligible for registration. The unorganised worker shall make an application in the format annexed, pay Rs.15/- or such other amount as specified by the Commissioner of Labour and furnish an undertaking stating that he or she is an unorganised worker.
Application Form
The application forms for Chandranna Bima Yojana can be downloaded from the official website using the link below.
Download Application Form
State government of Andhra Pradesh also launched such an accidental insurance scheme for transport drivers in May last year by paying Rs. 6.5 crore as the premium to insurance company. Under that scheme about 581 driver’s families benefited with the accidental death policy.
Chandranna Bima Yojana Advertisement
Chandranna Bima Yojana for Labourers in Andhra Pradesh
More details about the scheme can be found on the official website of the scheme at http://www.chandrannabima.ap.gov.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

प्रधान मंत्री फसल बीमा योजना 2020 के लिए ऑनलाइन आवेदन कैसे करें / किसान पंजीकरण कैसे करें, PMFBY के लिए पात्रता, जरूरी दस्तावेजों की सूची, योजना के तहत बीमा राशि के लिए क्लेम कैसे करें और योजना के फ़ायदों के साथ पाएँ योजना के बारे में 

Table of Contents

PM Fasal Bima Yojana Application Form 2020How to Apply Online for PMFBYCheck PM Fasal Bima Yojana Application StatusPMFBY List of DocumentsPM Fasal Bima Yojana – EligibilityPMFBY Premium Amount and Premium CalculatorPMFBY Last Date for Online ApplicationHow to Claim Insurance Amount Under PMFBYPMFBY Benefits and Salient FeaturesPMFBY Guidelines PDFPMFBY AppPM Fasal Bima Yojana – FAQ’s✔️ What is Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana✔️ What is the last date of application under PMFBY✔️ How to Apply for PMFBY✔️ How to Apply Online for PMFBY✔️ How to Apply Offline for PMFBY✔️ What is the premium amount to be paid by the farmers under PMFBY✔️ Who can apply for PMFBY✔️ How to Claim the Insured Amount under PMFBY✔️ In how may days the insured amount will be paid✔️ How to calculate the PMFBY insurance premium amountPMFBY 2020 Complaint / Grievance SectionPMFBY Helpline
Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana 2020 online applications or registration can be submitted online through the official website of PMFBY at pmfby.gov.in. Under PMFBY, one of the many schemes launched by Narendra Modi government, farmers can apply online for crop insurance cover and get financial assistance in case their crops gets damaged due to heavy rain, natural calamities, pests or diseases. Interested farmers can also calculate PMFBY insurance premium amount through the same portal.
Govt. is implementing this Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) across the country for the welfare of the farmers. The premium amount under the PMFBY scheme is set to 2% for Kharif and 1.5% for Rabi crops compared to much higher premium under the previous crop insurance. PM Narendra Modi launched this agricultural insurance / crop insurance scheme on 18 February 2016.
The registration lines for crop insurance for PMFBY 2020 are open and all the interested farmers can apply online for agriculture insurance at the official website of PM Fasal Bima Yojana at pmfby.gov.in.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

PM Fasal Bima Yojana Application Form 2020
Application forms for Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana can be submitted online or offline through the official portal or through banks / CSC centers respectively. All the nationalized commercial banks, co-operative banks and regional rural banks are authorized for registrations of farmers under PMFBY.
Who Can Apply Online for PMFBY: Online the farmers who have not availed any loan through Kisan Credit Card are eligible to apply online for PMFBY. Since the crop insurance is mandatory for farmers who chose to avail seasonal crop loan through Kisan Credit card, they can apply for PMFBY only through the banks.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

How to Apply Online for PMFBY
Below is the complete procedure of how to apply online for agriculture insurance under PMFBY 2020. Online applications for PMFBY can be made through the official portal either using a smartphone or desktop / laptop device.
STEP 1: Visit the official PMFBY portal at pmfby.gov.in
STEP 2: On the homepage, click at the “Farmer Corner – Apply for Crop Insurance by Yourself” section as shown in the figure below:
PMFBY Application Link
STEP 3: On clicking at the farmers corner, create a new user account by clicking at the “Guest Farmers” tab to open PMFBY crop insurance registration form for new farmers or directly click this link.
PMFBY Farmer Registration Link
STEP 4: Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana online application form for the year 2020 will appear as follows:
PMFBY Farmer Registration Form
STEP 5: Enter farmers details such as name and mobile number (Also Verify mobile number), residential details, farmer ID (Aadhar number to be verified), bank account number and details & click at the “Create User” button to complete the registration process.
STEP 6: After making registration, farmers can Login using their registered mobile number to fill the remaining form for crop insurance, upload the required documents and complete the online application process.
Check PM Fasal Bima Yojana Application Status
Already registered farmers can Check PMFBY Application Status through online mode.
PMFBY status can easily be checked by clicking the “Application Status” banner on the homepage and the entering the receipt number in the input box.
PMFBY List of Documents
Following is the complete list of documents required for crop insurance under PMFBY.
Aadhar CardBank Passbook (Bank Account Details), Bhoo-Abhilekh, Sowing CertificateIf you are the land owner, Khasra Number / Khaata Number document is required.Sowing certificate can be a simple white paper with details of sowing signed by Patwari, Sarpanch or Pradhan of the village. The procedure is different for different states, contact your nearest bank branch for this.If you are the sharing-basis farmer, then a copy of agreement with the land owner with Khasra Number / Khaata Number mentioned on it will be required for registration.
PM Fasal Bima Yojana – Eligibility
All the farmers across the country who are involved in notified crops production as land owners, tenants or sharing-basis in the notified areas are eligible to apply for the scheme.
All the farmers must apply and pay the insurance premium in order to avail PMFBY scheme benefits or claim the insurance amount.
PMFBY Premium Amount and Premium Calculator
The insurance premium under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana is much less than any other crop insurance scheme. Below is the complete list of PMFBY premium amount to be paid by the farmer.
For Kharif Crops2% of the eligible insured amountFor Rabi Crops1.5% of the eligible insured amountAnnual Commercial and Horticulture Crops5% of the eligible insured amountPMFBY Premium Amount
The actual insurance premium amount in Rupees can be calculated using the PMFBY insurance premium calculator based on the state / district / crop etc.
PMFBY Last Date for Online Application
Last date for applications for Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana is as following
For Rabi Crops: 31st DecemberFor Kharif Crops: 31st July
However, actual last date of PMFBY application can be obtained from the official portal / nearest CSC center / insurance company or the agriculture officer or the banks in your area.
How to Claim Insurance Amount Under PMFBY
Below is the complete procedure to report the loss of crops and claim the insurance amount from the insurance company.
At first, the farmers have to inform the insurance company, bank, concerned state government officer, or at the toll free number of insurance company within 72 hours of the loss / damage of corps.Bank / concerned state government officer will forward the information to the insurance company.The insurance company will appoint damage surveyor within next 72 hours.The survey of the damage of crops will be done within next 10 days.Payment of insured amount will be received within 15 days after the completion of survey.
Toll free numbers of PMFBY insurance companies
Insurance Company NameToll Free NumberAgriculture Insurance Company1800116515Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.18002095959Bharti Axa General Insurance Co. Ltd.18001037712Cholamandalam MD General Insurance Co. Ltd.18002005544Future Generali India Insurance Co. Ltd.18002664141HDFC ERGO General Insurance Co. Ltd.18002660700ICICI Lombard General Insurance Co. Ltd.18002669725IFFCO Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.1800-103-5490National Insurance Co. Ltd.18002007710New India Assurance Company18002091415Oriental Insurance1800118485Reliance General Insurance Co. Ltd.18001024088/180030024088Royal Sundaram General Insurance Co. Ltd.18005689999SBI General Insurance18001232310Shriram General Insurance Co. Ltd.180030030000/18001033009TATA AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.18002093536United India Insurance Co.180042533333Universal Sompo General Insurance Company18002005142Toll free numbers of PMFBY insurance companies
PMFBY Benefits and Salient Features
PMFBY benefits includes Investment Protection and Yield Protection as two main benefits. Below are some of the salient features of PM Fasal Bima Yojana.
Very Less Premium AmountComplete insured amount in case of loss of crops due to natural calamity.Make the agriculture more beneficial.Promote the development of farmers and agriculture in India.Easy Online application and claim procedure.Online insurance premium calculator.24×7 helpline at [email protected]
PMFBY Guidelines PDF
The detailed revised guidelines of Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana can be downloaded in PDF format using the below given links.PMFBY Guidelines – Revised (English): https://pmfby.gov.in/pdf/Revised_Operational_Guidelines.pdfPMFBY Guidelines – Revised (Hindi): https://pmfby.gov.in/pdf/Revised_Operational_Guidelines_Hindi.pdf
Other documents including the older PMFBY guidelines can be downloaded from this link.
PMFBY App
Download the official app of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana using the below link.
PMFBY App
PM Fasal Bima Yojana – FAQ’s



✔️ What is Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana
Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana or PMFBY is a crop insurance scheme for farmers being run by Central Government across India



✔️ What is the last date of application under PMFBY
Every Year 31st July is the last date for Kharif crops and 31st December is the last date for Rabi crops



✔️ How to Apply for PMFBY
Farmers can apply online or offline for the crop insurance under PMFBY



✔️ How to Apply Online for PMFBY
Farmers can apply online for Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana through the official portal of the scheme at pmfby.gov.in



✔️ How to Apply Offline for PMFBY
Offline applications can be done through the bank branches / common service centers across the country.



✔️ What is the premium amount to be paid by the farmers under PMFBY
Farmers have to par 2% of the insured amount, Kharif crops and 1.5% for Rabi crops and 5% of the insured amount for the commercial annual crops and gardening crops



✔️ Who can apply for PMFBY
Any farmer who is a land owner or tenant or sharing-basis can apply for crop insurance under PMFBY



✔️ How to Claim the Insured Amount under PMFBY
The PMFBY claim procedure is very easy, farmers who have taken the crop insurance just have to call the toll free number of the insurance company or inform the bank / concerned agriculture officer within 72 hours of the crop loss or damage.



✔️ In how may days the insured amount will be paid
After the survey of damaged crops is complete, insured amount will be transferred to the bank account of farmer within 15 days.



✔️ How to calculate the PMFBY insurance premium amount
Farmers can use the PMFBY insurance premium calculator on the official portal to calculate the same on the basis of state / district / crop and area.




PMFBY 2020 Complaint / Grievance Section
For the convenience of farmers, Govt. has also provided the Technical Grievance facility for any technical issue. Now farmers can submit any technical issue directly to the concerned authorities. 
For this, farmers needs to click at the “Complaints – Tell Us About Your Problems” section to open the complaint registration form.
PMFBY Technical Grievance
Fill all the details in the complaint form and hit the “Submit” button to send your complaint.
PMFBY Helpline
For any query about PMFBY, farmers write their queries at [email protected]





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh Government has launched a high speed broadband project named AP Fibernet on 17th March. The project aims to provide affordable high speed broadband connectivity to the households and workplaces across the state.
The rates decided to provide broadband connectivity are much lower than that of the other private and public broadband service providers. The government will provide 15 MBPS internet at Rs. 199 per month and 100 MBPS speed will be provided at just Rs. 999 per month.
The AP Fibernet Project has been initially launched in the Visakhapatnam district but will roll out to other districts by July 2016. The whole project has been implemented at a cost of Rs. 333 Crore.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The AP Government aims to connect 1.3 Crore households in the state through AP Fibernet. The government has tied up with the leading network solutions provider CISCO to implement the project.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

 




(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

AP Amma Vodi Scheme 1st List of Beneficiaries 2019-20AP Jagananna Amma Vodi Scheme HM / Principal LoginAP Jagananna Amma Vodi Scheme DetailsAP Amma Vodi Scheme 2019-2020 HighlightsAny Query in Finding Name – Contact UsFAQ’s for AP Jagananna Amma Vodi Scheme First Beneficiary List 2020
Andhra Pradesh government has released AP Amma Vodi Scheme 1st Beneficiary List at jaganannaammavodi.ap.gov.in. Now all the applicants can check their ward name in the AP Jagananna AmmaVodi Scheme first list of beneficiaries. The clickable link to search child details for Amma Vodi Scheme 2019-20 is functional at the official portal. The application process for AP Jagananna Amma Vodi (అమ్మ ఒడి) Scheme had already completed. The 1st Jagananna Amma vodi Status check was released on 23rd December 2019. This scheme aims to provide financial assistance of Rs. 15,000 to each mother / guardian on sending their children to school. 
CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy had announced AP Jagananna Amma Vodi Scheme as part of “Navaratnalu”. To avail scheme benefits, the student must belong to below poverty line (BPL) household irrespective of caste, creed, religion and region. The main focus is to educate children from class 1st to 12th (intermediate education) in any recognized govt. / govt. aided / private aided and private unaided schools. Even the Jr. Colleges students including residential schools / colleges in the state are eligible from the Academic year 2019-2020.
All the applicants who had made Amma Vodi Scheme registration can now check their name in 1st beneficiary list at official website. This list of beneficiaries for AP Jagananna Amma Vodi Scheme 2019-2020 indicates the names of beneficiaries of each district who will get scheme benefits.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP Amma Vodi Scheme 1st List of Beneficiaries 2019-20
Below is the complete procedure to search child details for AP Jagananna Amma Vodi Scheme 2019-2020:-

Firstly visit the official website at http://jaganannaammavodi.ap.gov.in/
At the homepage, click at the “CLICK HERE FOR SEARCH CHILD DETAILS FOR AMMAVODI SCHEME” link
The name find page of students for availing benefits of AP Jagananna Amma Vodi Scheme will appear as shown below:-
AP Jagananna Amma Vodi Scheme List
Here mother / guardian aadhar number needs to be entered along with the verification code. Finally, click at the “Get Details” button to get your children information.

White Ration Card is the only criteria to get financial assistance under AP Jagananna Amma Vodi Scheme. All the students studying in government, social welfare residential and private colleges would be covered. All those students whose name is not present in the AP Jagananna AmmaVodi Scheme list of beneficiaries need not worry. They shall apply online for their name inclusion in AP Amma Vodi Scheme 2nd List of beneficiaries.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

CM YSR Jagan Mohan Reddy announced the Amma Vodi Scheme on 10th June 2019 and the implementation of scheme is scheduled to be done on 26th January 2020. 
AP Jagananna Amma Vodi Scheme HM / Principal Login
All the headmasters / principal of either private or government schools in Andhra Pradesh can make login at AP Jagananna Amma Vodi Scheme Portal through the link given below:-
HM / Principal District Wise Login
Officers Login
AP Jagananna Amma Vodi Scheme Details
Here are the features of AP Jagananna Amma Vodi Scheme 2019-2020:-

Only the students studying in Andhra Pradesh are eligible.
The beneficiary of AP Amma Vodi Scheme is the mother of school going children coming from BPL families.
Andhra Pradesh govt. will provide Rs. 15,000 per year to each mother beneficiary to encourage them to send their children to school.
The assistance would be provided to students for studying in class 1st up to Intermediate level i.e class 12th. The scheme is applicable to all public and private schools of the state.
The fund under Amma Vodi scheme would be transferred directly to the bank account of the beneficiary through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode.
Only those applicants will be able to get the benefit whose names is present in the AP Amma Vodi Scheme Beneficiary List.

Furthermore, mother/ guardian must ensure that their wards maintain the attendance of minimum 75% in the school. No benefit will be provided in case of low attendance.
AP Amma Vodi Scheme 2019-2020 Highlights
The AP Amma Vodi Scheme highlights at glance are shown in the table below:-


Name of the Scheme
AP Jagananna Amma Vodi Scheme


Post category
Beneficiary List


State
Andhra Pradesh


Scheme Type
State Level Welfare Scheme


Supervising Department
School Education Department (Govt. of AP)


Initiated by
CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy


Beneficiary
Mothers of school going children (BPL families)


Amount of incentives
Rs. 15000 per year


Validity Year
2019-2020


Announced on
10th June 2019


Availability of 1st Final beneficiary list
27th December 2019


Formal Launch
26 January 2020


Schools covered
Government, Private Aided, Private Unaided, Junior and Residential Schools


Students of Which Class are eligible
Class I to Class XII


Mode of application
Offline


Official Website
jaganannaammavodi.ap.gov.in


Any Query in Finding Name – Contact Us
If any person is finding difficulty in finding name in Amma Vodi Scheme 2020 List then they can contact us at:-
4th Floor, B block, VTPS Rd, Bhimaraju Gutta, Ibrahimpatnam, Andhra Pradesh 521456, Phone : 0866 288 3941, Email : [email protected]
FAQ’s for AP Jagananna Amma Vodi Scheme First Beneficiary List 2020
Question 1 – When will AP Amma Vodi beneficiary list release?
Answer 1 – AP Amma Vodi list of beneficiaries was released on 27th December 2019 @ jaganannaammavodi.ap.gov.in
Question 2 – How can I check my name in the beneficiary list & What is website name?
Answer 2 – You can check it on the official website of Amma Vodi Scheme at jaganannaammavodi.ap.gov.in. For your assistance we will also provide the beneficiary list pdfs/ links on this page.
Question 3 – When will I receive the benefit of AP Amma Vodi Scheme?
Answer 3 – The implementation of the scheme is scheduled for 26th January 2020. After the official launch by CM YS Jagan, beneficiaries will start getting the amount of benefit in their bank accounts. 
For more details, visit the official website at http://jaganannaammavodi.ap.gov.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: http://jaganannaammavodi.ap.gov.in/
SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

BPL List (Till 2020-2021) Based on (SECC-2011) NREGA Data1. Based On Inclusion & Exclusion in NREGA SchemeState Wise BPL List Download – Find Your NameMGNREGA Convergent Planning ListSECC-2011 Data Summary – Deprivation Households Data
If you are looking to check your name in the BPL list upto 2020-2021 to avail benefits of social welfare schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Gramin), PM Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), PM Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana (Saubhagya) or any other, you are at the right place. The selection of beneficiaries for may social welfare schemes is done on the basis of BPL households in the state/country.
The inclusion or exclusion of a family in the BPL list is already decided in the Socio-Economic Caste Census-2011 data and the complete state wise list of BPL households can be downloaded from the respective websites of state departments. The BPL list is is must for those who are looking to enroll themselves for availing the benefits of welfare schemes in 2019-2020, especially designed for the BPL families.
The complete state wise list of BPL families / households / candidates can be seen at the official websites of state government departments or in SECC-2011 data. Other than the BPL list, government may decide few other parameters for the selection of beneficiaries for various schemes. It is important to note that there is no proper BPL List 2020-21 which is publicly available, as the list is a part of Socio-Economic Cast Census Data – 2011.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

BPL List (Till 2020-2021) Based on (SECC-2011) NREGA Data
People can check their name in the BPL list through any of the 2 methods described below:-
1. Based On Inclusion & Exclusion in NREGA Scheme
In Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA Scheme), under this scheme most of the BPL households are covered / included, hence, you one can check name in BPL list by looking at the list of NREGA job cards at its official website. For checking name in the all India final BPL list, based on NREGA job cards list, below is the complete procedure:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

STEP 1: To download the BPL List from SECC 2011 Data (based on MGNREGA data), candidates can directly click this link – https://nrega.nic.in/.
All India BPL List Based on NREGA
STEP 2: To check your name in the IPPE2 final BPL list, candidates can click the “State Name” to reach to the next page which will be displayed as below. 
Find Name in NREGA BPL List
STEP 3: On this screen, users have to select the financial year (Up to 2020-2021), district, block, panchayat and then click on the “Proceed” button which will take you to the list of NREGA job cards (Almost all of those belongs to the BPL families).
On the next page, you will see the complete list of all NREGA Job Cards or the most of the BPL candidates as shown below.
BPL List Based on NREGA
STEP 5: Finally, candidates can click the “Job Card Number / जॉब कार्ड संख्या” to check the complete details of that particular candidate.
However, there is no option to download this IPPE2 SECC list / BPL list file in MS Excel or PDF format. Moreover, candidates can print it also using “Print” command in Windows (ctrl+P). If any person belonging to BPL category is able to find their name in the downloaded SECC 2011 data list (All India Final BPL List 2020-2021), then person would be eligible to avail benefits of various govt. schemes.
Candidates can can press ctrl+F buttons to open the find dialog and search their name in the BPL list based on NREGA upto 2020-2021. If there are multiple entries with the same name, then match it with the address, name of parents and other details.
State Wise BPL List Download – Find Your Name
BPL list based on SECC Data 2011 or later inclusions can also be found in the BPL ration card list which is available for all the 35 states and UTs and can be checked through the respective state/UT department website’s links given below. All the candidates can find their name in the Gram Panchayat Wise BPL Suchi 2020-21.
Name of StateTotal HouseholdsLinkBPL List for 28 States (NREGA Job Cards)Andhra Pradesh1,22,70,164View ListArunachal Pradesh2,60,217View ListAssam64,27,614View ListBihar2,00,74,242View ListChhattisgarh57,14,798View ListGoa3,02,950View ListGujarat1,16,29,409View ListHaryana46,30,959View ListHimachal Pradesh14,27,365View ListJammu and Kashmir20,94,081View ListJharkhand60,41,931View ListKarnataka1,31,39,063View ListKerala76,98,556View ListMadhya Pradesh1,47,23,864View ListMaharashtra2,29,62,600View ListManipur5,78,939View ListMeghalaya5,54,131View ListMizoram2,26,147View ListNagaland3,79,164View ListOdisha99,42,101View ListPunjab50,32,199View ListRajasthan1,31,36,591View ListSikkim1,20,014View ListTamil Nadu1,75,21,956View ListTripura8,75,621View ListUttarakhand19,68,773View ListUttar Pradesh3,24,75,784View ListWest Bengal2,03,67,144View ListUnion Territories BPL List (NREGA Job Cards)Andaman & Nicobar Islands92,717View ListChandigarh2,14,233View ListDadra & Nagar Haveli66,571View ListDaman & Diu44,968View ListNCT of Delhi33,91,313View ListLakshadweep10,929View ListPuducherry2,79,857NA
Telangana is a new state which got separated from Andhra Pradesh after FY 2011, so BPL List of Telangana People is not present separately. People of Telangana state can check their name by selecting their district in the Andhra Pradesh BPL List.
MGNREGA Convergent Planning List
All the people can also check their name in the MGNREGA convergent planning list. This list is prepared by the central govt. after inclusion of National Rural livelihood Mission (NRLM), Indira Awas Yojana (IAY), Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana (DDU-GKY) and National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP) beneficiaries. The MGNREGA Convergent Planning list can be accessed through the link:-
http://mnregaweb4.nic.in/The MGNREGA Convergent Planning List will appear as shown below:-
MGNREGA Convergent Planning List SECC 2011 Data
Here candidates can select the State, District, Tehsil / Taluk, Gram Panchayat and click at “Submit” button to open the MGNREGA Convergent Planning Households List as shown below:-
MGNREGA Convergent Planning Households List
This list would contain the SECC TIN Number, district, tehsil / taluk, block, gram panchayat, village name, household size, age, gender, social category and job card details.
SECC-2011 Data Summary – Deprivation Households Data
People can check SECC 2011 Data Summary at the official website – secc.gov.in and the entire summary report can be checked at the link below:-http://secc.gov.in/statewiseSeccDataSummaryReport?reportType=SECC%20Data%20Summary#
Click at the option of “Save Report” to save the entire SECC-2011 data report in “Microsoft Office Excel Worksheet” file. Candidates can even check the zone wise list which comprises of the type of households, gender, disability, education, caste, income and employment profile along with assets and land ownership. In addition, category wise list is available for SC / ST / Female / Disabled and other category people. All the displayed data is on the basis of income source, salaried jobs, house type, exclusion, inclusion and deprivation.
The total number of households belonging to Below Poverty Line (BPL) which is an economic benchmark in India stands at about 107.4 million (10.74 crore) in 2011 as per the official data.
Candidates can also check SECC Family Member Details to get Socio Economic Caste Census (SECC) family member details.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

प्रधानमंत्री आवास योजना 2019-2020 ऑनलाइन पंजीकरण और आवेदन प्रधामंत्री आवास योजना की आधिकारिक वेबसाइट pmaymis.gov.in पर उपलब्ध हैं। जानें प्रधानमंत्री आवास योजना के फायदे, पात्रता और अन्य जानकारी

Table of Contents

PM Awas Yojana Online Application Forms 2020PMAY EligibilityTake Printout of Online Application Form of PMAYPMAY Online Application Edit/Change/Update
pmaymis.gov.in – PMAY Online Application Forms 2020 | PMAY Online Registration CSC | Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Online Application Form 2020
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana 2020 online application forms are being accepted through the official website of PM Awas Yojana at pmaymis.gov.in. The online application process for Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana is very simple and here we will guide you on how to fill online application forms for Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana 2019-2020 through pmaymis.gov.in.
The online registration process for PM Awas Yojana is very simple, you just need to make sure that you are entering the correct information. If you are eligible to apply for PMAY, you can follow the below step by step PMAY online application procedure along with screenshots.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

LATEST UPDATE: Online applications for the PM Awas Yojana have been started again after the general elections 2019. Below is the complete procedure to apply online for PMAY-U.
The central government has recently extended the timeline to avail the interest subsidy on home loans under CLSS component of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Urban by 15 Months. However the PMAY Last Date has been extended for the MIG applicants only.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

PM Awas Yojana Online Application Forms 2020
Below is the complete step by step procedure to apply online for Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Urban through the official website.
STEP 1: Open the official website of PMAY at pmaymis.gov.in and select one of the two options of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana application from “Citizen Assessment” menu, as given in the below screenshot.
PMAY HFA Urban Online Registration
You have to select one of the two links as per the following criteria
– If you are currently living in slum area, then select “For Slum Dwellers” otherwise select “Benefits under other 3 Components” from the drop down menu.
OR You can directly click the following links to apply online for PMAY
For Slum Dwellers: https://pmaymis.gov.in/Open/Check_Aadhar_Existence.aspx?comp=a
For benefits under other 3 Components: https://pmaymis.gov.in/Open/Check_Aadhar_Existence.aspx?comp=b
STEP 2: On the next page as seen below, you will have to enter your Aadhar number or Virtual ID and Name as per Aadhar Card and click the “Check” button.
PMAY Urban Apply Online Aadhaar Virtual ID Name
STEP 3: If your Aadhar number is correct, a new page will open which will look like the below image. If your Aadhar number is incorrect, try again by entering your correct Aadhar number. If you do not have Aadhar number, you will not be able to apply for PMAY.
PMAY Online Application Form | Source: pmaymis.gov.in
STEP 4: Fill the details correctly including your personal details, contact details, current residential address, Aadhar Number, Bank Account details and income details in the application form.
STEP 5: Click the checkbox which says “I am aware of….” and then click the “Save” Button at the end of application form.
PMAY Online Application Form Submit | Source: pmaymis.gov.in
STEP 6: Once you click “Save”, you will see a new screen where a system generated application number will be given to you, you can either print this directly if a printer is attached with your computer or save it for your future reference.
Your application is now complete. You can track status of PMAY application on the same website at pmaymis.gov.in.
PMAY Eligibility
Before applying for PM Awas Yojana online, please make sure that
– You are eligible to apply for the scheme (Check your name in the PMAY beneficiary list).
– You have your Aadhar Number with you, Aadhar is mandatory for PMAY online application.
– Your computer is connected to a reliable internet connection.
– You have the details of your saving bank account with you.
– You have the actual details of your household income.
Eligibility PM Awas Yojana
Take Printout of Online Application Form of PMAY
You can take a printout of the PMAY online application form filled by you by entering your name, father name & ID type or just the application number. Click the link below to take print out of PMAY application form.
https://pmaymis.gov.in/Open/Print_Application_By_applicationNo.aspx
The PMAY HFA Urban print assessment form page by application number will appear as shown below:-
PMAY Urban Online Application Form Print Name Mobile No.
People can also take printout of their PMAY Urban application form online through assessment ID which will appear as below:-
PMAY Urban Online Application Form Print Assessment ID
PMAY Online Application Edit/Change/Update
After submission of online application form on pmaymis.gov.in, you can also edit the details just by entering your application number and Aadhar number. The facility has been provided to the applicants in case they entered any detail incorrectly or wish to change their contact details.
PMAY Urban Apply Online Form Edit Update
To change or update the information of your PMAY application, please visit this link.
https://pmaymis.gov.in/Open/Format_A_B_Edit.aspx
Online applications for Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana are also being invited through Common Service Centers, to know the procedure to apply through CSC, please follow the links below
IN ENGLISH: Apply Online for Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) through CSC 
IN HINDI: प्रधान मंत्री आवास योजना के लिए ऑनलाइन आवेदन कैसे करें – पूरी जानकारी
NOTE: These applications for PMAY are being invited by Ministry of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation for assessment purpose, the final approval to the application would be given by State Government / Urban Local Body.
See PM Awas Yojana List of Beneficiaries 2020
IMAGE CREDITS AND SOURCE: pmaymis.gov.in





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Gramin (PMAY-G) has finally been launched by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi in Agra on 20th November 2016. Under the PM Awas Yojana Gramin affordable housing scheme, central government aims to develop 3 Crore homes by the year 2022 in rural areas for poor families including BPL.
PMAY-G is the revamped version of Indira Awas Yojana which was renamed earlier this year with some pro-poor changes in the scheme. Housing units under the PMAY-G scheme are already being offered to the beneficiaries in rural areas across the country. Pradhan Mantri Narendra Modi also handed over the allotment letters to the beneficiaries during the launch event.
The minimum area of home under the new scheme has been increased to 25 Square meter (267 Square foot) from 20 Sq.Mt. in earlier scheme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Government has also released the scheme logo and a video

http://iay.nic.in/netiay/Video/PMAYGLaunch.mp4
The objective of the scheme is to provide homes to every Indian by the year 2022. Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Gramin will be implemented across the country except Delhi and Chandigarh. The immediate target of PMAY-G is to construct 1 Crore affordable homes in rural areas by the year 2018-19.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Financial Assistance Under PMAY-G
The central government would be providing a financial assistance of Rs. Rs. 120,000 in plain areas and Rs. 130,000 in eastern, hilly and IAP areas to the beneficiaries. Along with this, an additional Rs. 12000 will also be provided to build toilet to each beneficiary under the Swachch Bharat Mission. The beneficiaries will also be provided daily wages of up to 90-95 days (Rs. 18000) through MGNREGA.
Hence, the total financial assistance amount will be 1 Lakh 50 thousand for plain areas and 1 Lakh 60 thousand for eastern, hilly and IAP areas. Interested beneficiaries can also avail a loan of upto Rs. 70000 from any of the nationalized banks for the construction of home. 
Selection of beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Gramin will be done on the basis of SECC-2011 data. The government has also launched AwaasApp for beneficiaries to know the status of their application, funding or share the progress of construction.
To know more about the PMAY-G, please visit the following links
IN ENGLISH: https://sarkariyojana.com/pradhan-mantri-awas-yojana-gramin/
IN HINDI: Pradhan Mantri Gramin Awas Yojana in Hindi
OR visit the official website at http://iay.nic.in
Video & Image Source and Credits: http://iay.nic.in





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Andhra Pradesh government had earlier launched AP YSR Matsyakara Bharosa Scheme on 21 November 2019. Now the AP govt. on 6 May 2020 begins disbursement of Rs. 10,000 to fishermen under AP YSR Matsyakara Bharosa Yojana. In this scheme, govt. provides financial assistance to fishermen operating mechanised, motorised and non-motorised fishing nets. Fishermen will now receive Rs. 10,000 from earlier amount of Rs. 4,000 due to Coronavirus (COVID-19) lockdown. 
AP govt. will extend benefits of scheme to fishermen who have already benefited from Rythu Bharosa, Vahana Mitra and YSR Pension Kanuka schemes. 
Fishermen who received Rythu Bharosa, Vahana Mitra, pension benefits will even get holiday assistance under the scheme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

AP YSR Matsyakara Bharosa Scheme 2020
The important features and highlights of this AP govt. scheme for fishermen are as follows:-

Increased assistance of Rs. 10,000 (previously Rs. 4,000) to fishermen amid COVID-19 lockdown.
AP YSR Matsyakara Bharosa Scheme beneficiaries to get increased diesel subsidy of Rs. 9 per litre which was Rs. 6.03 earlier. AP govt. has identified 81 filing stations for this purpose.
Earlier, financial assistance was only given to those fishermen who uses mechanised and motorized boats. But the current dispensation would extend benefits to even those fishermen who uses hunting rafts.
A total number of 1.09 lakh families of fishermen would be benefited from AP YSR Matsyakara Nestham Scheme.
Furthermore, ex-gratia provided to fishermen families which died while hunting has been raised from Rs. 5 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh. All the fishermen in 18 to 60 years of age group can avail this benefit.

CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy announced enhancement of benefits after reviewing the miserable conditions of fishermen during his 3,648 km-long padayatra. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

All the beneficiaries are rejoicing and expressed their pleasure as the unprecedented aid of Rs. 10,000 comes from AP govt. during Coronavirus lockdown. 
Other Benefits for Fishermen in AP
AP govt. will setup Integrated aqua labs in 46 locations at Rs. 56.53 crore. These labs are going to test quality of water, sand, feed and seeds for the benefit of aquaculturists. 
AP govt. has also allocated Rs. 720 crore to provide power to aqua farmers at cost of Rs. 1.5 per unit to benefit around 53,550 farmers. Other major decisions are to provide rights to fishermen on canals on lease at a nominal cost and provision of input subsidy.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.thehansindia.com/andhra-pradesh/andhra-govt-begins-disbursement-rs-10000-to-fishermen-under-ysr-matsyakara-bharosa-scheme-621042
SAVE AS PDF
