
PM Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) Scheme
1
Launched: 18 July 2020
Main Objective: To provide short term loans of upto Rs. 10,000 to rehdi / patri valas (phereewala).
This is a Central Sector Scheme to facilitate street vendors to access affordable working capital loan for resuming their livelihoods activities, after easing of lock-down. Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi is a special micro-credit facility scheme to providing affordable loans to street vendors. As livelihoods of these daily wage earners have been impacted seriously due to COVID-19 lockdown, govt. has started this scheme. The scheme will provide working capital loan to enable street vendors to resume their life. In this scheme, street vendors from peri-urban or rural areas would be the beneficiaries.
Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi

Official Website: https://pmsvanidhi.mohua.gov.in/Sahakar Mitra Yojana
Launched: 13 June 2020
Main Objective: Govt. will provide paid internship to youth and ensure availability of assured project loans to young cooperators.
National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) has embarked upon a series of initiatives in the cooperative sector entrepreneurship development ecosystem through capacity development. Sahakar Mitra Scheme is going to provide young professionals an opportunity of practical exposure and learning from the working of NCDC and cooperatives as a paid intern. Under Sahakar Mitra Internship Yojana, professionals in disciplines including Agriculture and allied areas, IT, Agri-business, Cooperation, Finance, International Trade, Forestry, Rural Development, Project Management will be eligible for the paid internship. Each intern youth will get financial support over 4 months internship period for which the online application is available on NCDC website. 
Official Website: https://www.ncdc.in/Digital India
Launched: 1 July 2015
Main Objective: To deliver Government services to citizens electronically by improving online infrastructure and by increasing Internet connectivity.
The Digital India programme is a flagship programme of the Government of India with a vision to transform India into a digitally empowered society and knowledge economy. The vision of Digital India programme is to transform India into a digitally empowered society and knowledge economy.
Official Website: http://www.digitalindia.gov.inSkill India
Launched: 16 July 2015
Main Objective: Train over 40 crore people in India in different skills by 2022.
The main goal of Skill India Program is to create opportunities, space and scope for the development of talents of the Indian youth. The scheme also targeted to identify new sectors for skill development and develop more of those sectors which have already been put under skill development for the last so many years.
Official Website: http://skillindia.gov.inBeti Bachao, Beti Padhao Yojana
Launched: 22 January 2015
Main Objective: To generate awareness and improving the efficiency of welfare services meant for women. Now Central govt. has extended this BBBP Scheme Pan India ExpansionBeti Bachao Beti Padhao Scheme is to have as focussed intervention and multi-section action in almost 100 districts with low Child Sex Ratio (CSR).
Official Website: http://wcd.nic.inMission Indradhanush
Launched: 25 December 2014
Main Objective: To immunize all children as well as pregnant women against seven vaccine preventable diseases namely diphtheria, whooping cough (Pertussis), tetanus, polio, tuberculosis, measles and hepatitis B by 2020.
The aim of Mission Indradhanush is to achieve full immunization in 352 districts which includes 279 mid priority districts, 33 districts from the North East states and 40 districts from phase one where huge number of missed out children were detected.
Official Website: http://www.missionindradhanush.inDeen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana (DDUGJY)
Launched: 25 July 2015
Main Objective: Electric supply feeder separation (rural households & agricultural) and strengthening of sub-transmission & distribution infrastructure including metering at all levels in rural areas.
DDUGJY will help in providing round the clock power to rural households and adequate power to agricultural consumers. The earlier scheme for rural electrification viz. Rajiv Gandhi Grameen Vidyutikaran Yojana (RGGVY) has been subsumed in the new scheme as its rural electrification component.
Official Website: http://powermin.nic.inDeen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana (DDUGKY)
Launched: 25 July 2015
Main Objective: To achieve inclusive growth, by developing skills and productive capacity of the rural youth from poor families.
DDU-GKY aims to train rural youth who are poor and provide them with jobs having regular monthly wages. It is one of the cluster initiatives of the Ministry of Rural Development that seeks to promote rural livelihoods. It is a part of the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) – the Mission for poverty reduction called Aajeevika.
Official Website: http://ddugky.gov.inPandit Deendayal Upadhyay Shramev Jayate Yojana (PDUSJY)
Launched: 16 October 2014
Main Objective: To consolidate information of Labour Inspection and its enforcement through a unified web portal, which will lead to transparency and accountability in inspections.
A Unified Labour Portal, known as the Shram Suvidha portal was launched under the scheme as a platform to facilitate the implementation of a transparent system for information and database management.
Official Website: https://www.efilelabourreturn.gov.inAtal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT)
Launched: 24 June 2015
Main Objective: Providing basic services (e.g. water supply, sewerage, urban transport) to households and build amenities in cities which will improve the quality of life for all, especially the poor and the disadvantaged.
The purpose of Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation – AMRUT Scheme is to (i) ensure that every household has access to a tap with assured supply of water and a sewerage connection; (ii) increase the amenity value of cities by developing greenery and well maintained open spaces (e.g. parks); and (iii) reduce pollution by switching to public transport or constructing facilities for non-motorized transport (e.g. walking and cycling).
Official Website: http://amrut.gov.in
Complete List of Schemes Launched by Narendra Modi – Download PDFSwadesh Darshan Yojana
Launched: 09 March 2015
Main Objective: Develop world class tourism infrastructure.
As part of the Swadesh Darshan Scheme, theme based tourism circuits (TBCT) around specific themes such as religion, culture, ethnicity, niche, etc. are identified for infrastructure development across the country.
Official Website: http://tourism.gov.inPRASAD (Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual Augmentation Drive)
Launched: 09 March 2015
Main Objective: Develop world class tourism infrastructure in Amritsar, Ajmer, Amaravati, Dwaraka, Gaya, Kanchipuram, Kedarnath, Kamakhya, Mathura, Puri, Varanasi and Vellankani.
PRASAD scheme aims to create spiritual centres for tourism development within the nation. As part of mission strategy, religious destinations that have potential to be show-cased as world-class tourism products are identified and infrastructure is developed on a priority basis.
Official Website: http://tourism.gov.inSwades Skill Card Scheme
Launched: 4 June 2020
Main Objective: Apply online for future employment opportunities through Swades Skill Card.
In SWADES (Skilled Workers Arrival Database for Employment Support) Scheme, govt. will conduct skill mapping of overseas returning citizens through Vande Bharat Mission. People who were working in other countries and now returned India amid Coronavirus (COVID-19) crisis can register themselves for Swades Skill Card for future employment opportunities.
Official Website: http://nsdcindia.org/swades/National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY)
Launched: 21 January 2015
Main Objective: Bringing together urban planning, economic growth and heritage conservation in an inclusive manner to preserve the heritage character of each Heritage City.
With a duration of 27 months (completing in March 2017) and a total outlay of INR 500 Crores, the Scheme is being implemented in 12 identified Cities namely, Ajmer, Amaravati, Amritsar, Badami, Dwarka, Gaya, Kanchipuram, Mathura, Puri, Varanasi, Velankanni and Warangal. The scheme is implemented in a mission mode.
Official Website: http://hridayindia.inUdaan Scheme
Launched: 14 November 2014
Main Objective: Encouraging girls for higher technical education and aims to provide a platform that empowers girl students and provides them with better learning opportunities.
It is a mentoring and scholarship scheme to enable meritorious girl students to transit from schools to technical education without much difficulty and also aims to enrich and enhance teaching and learning of mathematics and science at senior secondary school level by providing free online resources for all.
Official Website: http://mhrd.gov.inNational Bal Swachhta Mission
Launched: 14 November 2014
Main Objective: To provide hygienic and clean environment, food, drinking water, toilets, schools and other surroundings to the children.
The Bal Swachhta Mission is a part of the nationwide sanitation initiative of ‘Swachh Bharat Mission’ launched by the Prime Minister on 2nd October, 2014.
Official Website: http://wcd.nic.inOne Rank One Pension (OROP) Scheme
Launched: NA
Main Objective: To provide same pension, for same rank, for same length of service, irrespective of the date of retirement.
Official Website: http://wcd.nic.inSmart City Mission
Launched: 25 June 2015
Main Objective: To develop 100 cities all over the country making them citizen friendly and sustainable
Under the Smart City Mission, the NDA Government aims to develop smart cities equipped with basic infrastructure and offer a good quality of life through smart solutions. Assured water and power supply, sanitation and solid waste management, efficient urban mobility and public transport, robust IT connectivity, e-governance and citizen participation along with safety of its citizens are some of the likely attributes of these smart cities.
Official Website: http://smartcities.gov.inGold Monetisation Schemes
Launched: 04 November 2015
Main Objective: To reduce the reliance on gold imports over time.
The programme is to lure tonnes of gold from households into the banking system. Under the scheme, people can deposit gold into the banks and earn interest based on the value of the gold.
Official Website: http://finmin.nic.inStartup India, Standup India
Launched: ‎16 January 2016
Main Objective: To provide support to all start-up businesses in all aspects of doing business in India.
Under the Startup India, Standup India scheme, the start-ups will adopt self-certification to reduce the regulatory liabilities. An online portal, in the shape of a mobile application, will be launched to help start-up founders to easily register. The app is scheduled to be launched on April 1.
Official Website: http://finmin.nic.inDigi Locker
Launched: ‎01 July 2015
Main Objective: To provide a secure dedicated personal electronic space for storing the documents of resident Indian citizens.
Digilocker is a part of Digital India programme, Digital Locker has been designed to reduce the administrative overhead of government departments and agencies created due to paper work.
It will also make it easy for the residents to receive services by saving time and effort as their documents will now be available anytime, anywhere and can be shared electronically.
Official Website: https://digilocker.gov.inIntegrated Power Development Scheme (IPDS)
Launched: ‎18 September 2015
Main Objective: To ensure 24/7 power for all.
The Government of India will provide financial support of Rs. 45,800 crore over the entire implementation period of IPDS under which strengthening of sub-transmission network, metering, IT application, customer care Services, provisioning of solar panels will be implemented.
Official Website: http://www.apdrp.gov.inShyama Prasad Mukherji Rurban Mission
Launched: ‎21 February 2016
Main Objective: To create 300 rural clusters across the country and strengthen financial, job, and lifestyle facilities in rural areas.
Rurban Mission is a solution for both villages and cities in the country that would promote growth of villages and its residents at the place where they are. Under the mission, the government will identify and develop 300 rural clusters with urban like facilities in the next 3 years.
Official Website: http://rurban.gov.inManodarpan Scheme
Launched: 20 July 2020
Main Objective: To provide psycosocial support for mental health & well being of students during COVID-19 outbreak and beyond.
Manodarpan initiative has been launched to cover wide range of activities to provide psychosocial support to school, college, university students for their mental health and well-being during the COVID outbreak and beyond. It has been included in Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan as a part of strengthening human capital and increasing productivity and efficient reform and initiatives for the education sector.
Official Website: http://manodarpan.mhrd.gov.in/Sagarmala Project
Launched: ‎31 July 2015
Main Objective: To transform the existing ports into modern world class ports.
The prime objective of the Sagarmala project is to promote port-led direct and indirect development and to provide infrastructure to transport goods to and from ports quickly, efficiently and cost-effectively.
The Sagarmala Project, aimed at port-led development in coastal areas, is bound to boost the country’s economy and the government has lined up about Rs 70,000 crore for its 12 major ports only
Official Website: http://shipping.nic.in‘Prakash Path’ – ‘Way to Light’ – The National LED Programme
Launched: ‎05 January 2015
Main Objective: To distribute LED bulbs and decrease the power consumption.
This is one of the many schemes launched by Narendra Modi government India. The programme has been launched to distribute and encourage the use of LED light bulbs to save both cost and consumption.
Official Website: http://powermin.nic.inUJWAL Discom Assurance Yojana (UDAY)
Launched: ‎20 November 2015
Main Objective: To obtain operational and financial turnaround of State owned Power Distribution Companies (DISCOMs).
The Scheme aims to reduce the interest burden, reduce the cost of power, reduce power losses in Distribution sector, and improve operational efficiency of DISCOMs.
Official Website: http://powermin.nic.inVikalp Scheme
Launched: ‎01 November 2015
Main Objective: For confirmed accommodation in next alternative train for the waitlisted passengers.
Vikalp scheme is available only for the tickets booked through internet for six months and option will be limited to mail and express trains running on Delhi-Lucknow and Delhi-Jammu sectors.
Official Website: http://powermin.nic.inNational Sports Talent Search Scheme (NSTSS)
Launched: ‎20 February 2015
Main Objective: To Identify sporting talent among students in the age group of 8–12 years.
The scheme is being implemented by the Sports Authority of India (SAI), under the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports for spotting talented young children in the age group of 8-14 years from schools and nurturing them by providing scientific training.
Official Website: http://www.sportsauthorityofindia.nic.inRashtriya Gokul Mission
Launched: ‎16 December 2014
Main Objective: To conserve and develop indigenous bovine breeds.
Rashtriya Gokul Mission aims to conserve and develop indigenous breeds in a focused and scientific manner. It is a focussed project under National Programme for Bovine Breeding and Dairy Development, with an outlay of Rs 500 crore during the 12th Five Year Plan.
Official Website: http://dahd.nic.inPAHAL – Direct Benefits Transfer for LPG (DBTL) Consumers Scheme
Launched: ‎01 January 2015
Main Objective: To send the subsidy money of LPG cylinders directly into the bank accounts of the consumers and increase efficiency & transparency in the whole system.
Under the scheme, the LPG consumer can now receive subsidy in his bank account by two methods. Such a consumer will be called CTC (Cash Transfer Compliant) once he joins the scheme and is ready to receive subsidy in the bank account.
Official Website: http://dahd.nic.inThe National Institution for Transforming India (NITI AAYOG)
Launched: ‎01 January 2015
Main Objective: to foster involvement and participation in the economic policy-making process by the State Governments of India.
The National Institution for Transforming India (NITI) which replaced 65 year old Planning Commission will act more like a think tank or forum, in contrast with the Commission which imposed five-year-plans and allocated resources to hit set economic targets.
Official Website: http://niti.gov.inPradhan Mantri Khanij Kshetra Kalyan Yojana (PMKKKY)
Launched: ‎17 September 2015
Main Objective: To Safeguard Health, Environment and Economic Conditions of the Tribals.
Pradhan Mantri Khanij Kshetra Kalyan Yojana (PMKKKY) is meant to provide for the welfare of areas and people affected by mining related operations, using the funds generated by District Mineral Foundations (DMFs).
Official Website: http://mines.nic.inNamami Gange Project
Launched: ‎ 10 July 2014
Main Objective: To integrates the efforts to clean and protect the Ganga river in a comprehensive manner.
Namami Gange approaches Ganga Rejuvenation by consolidating the existing ongoing efforts and planning for a concrete action plan for future. The interventions at Ghats and River fronts will facilitate better citizen connect and set the tone for river centric urban planning process.
Official Website: https://nmcg.nic.inAatm Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan
Launched: 12 May 2020
Main Objective: To make India self reliant or self dependent in production and export of goods.
In this Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, the central govt. will lay special emphasis on economy growth, local production of goods, strengthening supply chain and raising demand of products. For this purpose, the PM Modi led central govt. has announced an economic package of Rs. 20 lakh crore. Labourers, farmers, daily wage earners, construction workers, middle class and upper class people are to be benefited from Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. The union govt. will focus on improvement in land, labour, liquidity and laws under Aatm Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. The 5 pillars of growth namely economy, infrastructure, system, demography, demand and supply chain would be encouraged through Atmanirbhar Bharat abhiyan.
Setu Bharatam Project
Launched: ‎ 03 March 2016
Main Objective: To free all national highways from railway level crossings and renovate the old bridges on national highways by 2019.
Setu Bharatam is an ambitious programme with an investment of Rs. 50,000 crore to build bridges for safe and seamless travel on National Highways.
208 new “road over bridges / road under bridges” are envisaged for construction, while 1500 bridges will be widened, rehabilitated or replaced.
Official Website: http://morth.nic.inPradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana
Launched: ‎ 1 May 2016
Main Objective: To distribute free LPG connections to the women belonging to 5 Crore BPL families across the country.
According the estimates, about 1.50 Crore BPL families will be benefited under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana in the year 2016-17. The scheme will cover 3.5 Crore more BPL families in the next two years. The scheme provides a financial support of Rs 1600 for each LPG connection to the BPL households.
This is the first ever welfare scheme by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas which would benefit crores of women belonging to the poorest households.
Official Website: http://www.pmujjwalayojana.comRashtriya Gram Swaraj Abhiyan
Launched 24 April 2018
Main Objective: To help Panchayat Raj Institutions deliver Sustainable Development Goals.
It is a new proposed scheme announced in the union financial budget 2016-17 by the Finance Minister Mr. Arun Jaitley.
Rashtriya Gram Swaraj Abhiyan has been proposed with allocation of Rs. 655 crore.
Official Website: http://rgsa.nic.inFood Safety Mitra Scheme
Launched 26 September 2019
Main Objective: FSSAI to provide training to make Digital Mitra or Hygiene Mitra or Trainer Mitra.
Food Safety & Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has launched Food Safety Mitra (FSM) Scheme to strengthen food safety administration and scale up “Eat Right India” movement. This scheme will improve ease of doing business and enable people to become Digital Mitra or Hygiene Mitra or Trainer Mitra. FSSAI is creating an ecosystem of food safety mitras who will assist FBOs with licensing and registration, training and auditing hygiene at different institutions such as schools, colleges and corporate campuses.
Official Website: fssai.gov.in/mitra/Surakshit Matritva Aashwasan (SUMAN) Scheme
Launched 10 October 2019
Main Objective: Free healthcare facilities to newborns, pregnant women & mothers upto 6 months after delivery.
Surakshit Matritva Aashwasan (SUMAN) Scheme is launched to reduce Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) & Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR). Under this scheme, govt. will provide free healthcare facilities to pregnant women, mothers upto 6 months after their delivery and all sick new born babies. There would be 0 expense access to identification and management of complications during and after pregnancy. The central govt. is also going to provide free transport from home to health institution
SUMAN scheme will include at-least 4 ante natal check-ups which includes 1 checkup during 1st trimester, at-least 1 checkup under PM Surakshit Matritva Abhiyan, Iron Folic Acid supplementation, Tetanus diptheria injection and other components of comprehensive ANC package and six home-based newborn care visits.
Official Website: https://mohfw.gov.in/NEAT Artificial Intelligence Learning Scheme
Launched 20 September 2019
Main Objective: Govt. to focus on usage of Artificial Intelligence technology for better learning outcomes.
NEAT AI Learning Scheme to be implemented on a Public Private Partnership (PPP) model. The central govt. will focus on usage of AI technology for better learning outcomes. MHRD will create a National Alliance with all EdTech companies and will act as facilitator to ensure that solutions are available freely to a large number of economically backward students.
Official Website: https://www.phdcci.in/Niryat Rin Vikas (NIRVIK) Yojana
Announced 18 September 2019
Main Objective: Govt. to Cut Insurance Premium Rates for Small Exporters
Central govt. will provide easy loans to exporters under Niryat Rin Vikas (NIRVIK) Yojana and will cover 90% of principal amount & interest rates. For losses to bank account of exporters, compensation would be provided to banks by ECGC.
Official Website: https://www.ecgc.in/PM Modi Common Livestock Diseases Control Scheme
Announced 5 September 2019
Main Objective: To eradicate Foot & Mouth Disease (FMD) & brucellosis disease in animals by vaccination in next 5 years.
PM Modi Common Livestock Diseases Control Scheme is to control livestock diseases particularly foot and mouth disease (FMD) and brucellosis. These 2 types of diseases are common in livestock which includes cow, bulls, buffaloes, sheep, goats and pigs. The main objective is to completely eradicate FMD and brucellosis in the next 5 years through this 13,500 crore vaccination scheme. 
Official Website: narendramodi.inSabka Vikas (Legacy Dispute Resolution) Scheme (SVLDRS)
Launched 1 September 2019
Main Objective: To provide one stop solution for tax dispute resolution.
Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) started Sabka Vishwas (Legacy Dispute Resolution) Scheme SVLDRS under Goods and Services Tax (GST). Applicants to get waiver on interest and penalty and would not be prosecuted for tax evasion. This is a one time measure for liquidation of past disputes of central excise and service tax. SVLDRS scheme will provide an opportunity of voluntary disclosure to non-compliant taxpayers.
Official Website: cbic-gst.gov.inFit India Movement
Announced 29 August 2019
Main Objective: To make people healthy, fit & do physical activities
Fit India Movement launched on the occasion of Sports Day to administer fitness pledge. This scheme will encourage people to inculcate physical activity and sports in their everyday lives. The use of technology has reduced the physical activity and will promote a culture of doing physical work,
Official Website: narendramodi.in
Pradhan Mantri Swamitva Yojana
Launched: 28 April 2020
Main Objective: To provide bank loans to people on their village property.
PM Swamitva Scheme is an integrated property validation solution for rural India. Now people living in rural areas can take loans from banks on their village property under this scheme. The demarcation of inhabited land in rural areas would be done by the use of latest surveying methods. For this purpose, central govt. will use Drone’s technology with the collaborated efforts of the Ministry of Panchayati Raj, State Panchayati Raj Department, State Revenue Department and Survey of India.NISHTHA Teachers Training Programme
Launched 2 September 2019
Main Objective: To provide free coaching to improve outcomes at elementary level
National Initiative for School Head’s and Teacher’s Holistic Advancement (NISHTHA) Scheme is the world’s largest teachers training program. NISHTHA aims to improve Quality of School Education through Integrated Teacher Training. It aims to build competencies among all the teachers and school principals at the elementary stage. The main focus will be on competency and higher order thinking skills based teaching learning. 
This program aims to provide training of all heads and teachers as first level counselors and to promote experiential and joyful learning. NISHTHA scheme aims to serve capacity building of 4.2 million teachers.
Official Website: https://www.india.gov.in/spotlight/nishtha
Samarth Scheme
Launched 2017
Main Objective: Training to 4 Lakh People for Capacity Building in Textile Sector
Samarth Scheme to provide skill training to youth for gainful and sustainable employment in textile sector. Samarth scheme aims to promote skilling and skill upgradation in the traditional sectors of handlooms, handicrafts, sericulture and jute. This scheme will enable provision of sustainable livelihood either by wage or self employment to all sections of the society. Samarth scheme will incentivize and supplement the efforts of the industry in creating jobs in the organized textile and related sectors. 
Official Website: https://samarth-textiles.gov.in/
Jal Jeevan Mission
Launched 16 August 2019
Main Objective: To ensure Piped Water Supply to All Families
Jal Jeevan Mission is to ensure piped water supply (Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal) to all families by 2024, govt. to spend Rs. 3.5 lakh crore for Nal Se Jal Scheme. Even after 70 years of Independence, around 50% of the Indian people does not access to drinking water and people have to walk miles to get drinking water. So, govt. will spend a huge amount of Rs. 3.5 lakh crore and will make efforts to conserve water and rejuvenate water sources. 
Official Website: http://mowr.gov.in/
One Nation One Ration Card Scheme
Announced 10 August 2019
Main Objective: To provide inter state portability of ration cards
1 Nation 1 Ration Card Scheme will ensure inter state portability of ration cards to provide highly subsidized food grains to poor people. Now people can purchase their quota of ration from any state across the country. The central govt. will make depots online to track movement of food grains.
Official Website: mofpi.nic.in
Paramarsh Scheme
Launched 20 July 2019
Main Objective: To provide mentorship to higher education institutions (HEIs) for NAAC level quality assurance in India
UGC Paramarsh Scheme aims to mentor HEIs to get NAAC accreditation. The institutions would be enabled to get accredited by focusing in the area of curricular aspects, teaching-learning & evaluation, research, innovation, institutional values & practices etc. This scheme will facilitate sharing of knowledge, information and opportunities for research collaboration and faculty development in Mentee Institutions.
Official Website: https://www.ugc.ac.in/
Atal Bimit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana
Launched 1 July 2018
Main Objective: ESIC to provide relief amount to insured employees in cash in case of unemployment
Employees will get assistance in case they get unemployed for sometime and search new job under Atal Bimit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana. In case the Insured Person (IP) is rendered unemployed, govt. will provide relief to the extent of 25% of the average per day earning during the previous four contribution periods (total earning during the four contribution period/730) to be paid up to maximum 90 days of unemployment once in lifetime of the IP on submission of claim in form of an Affidavit.
Official Website: http://www.esic.in/employeeportal/login.aspx
PM Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY)
Announced 5 July 2019
Main Objective: To turn India into a hotspot for fish and aquatic products. 
Under PM Matsya Sampada Yojana, govt. will provide adequate marketing and infrastructure support to fisheries sector. This scheme aims to improve aquaculture and will ensure easy access to credit. The central govt. has targeted to augment fish production to achieve its target of 15 million tonne by FY 2020 under Blue Revolution. 
Official Website: To be launched
Jal Shakti Abhiyan (National Water Conservation Scheme)
Launched 1 July 2019
Main Objective: Jan Andolan for Water Conservation
Jal Shakti Abhiyan (JSA) is a time-bound, mission-mode water conservation campaign. This abhiyan will focus on for water conservation and water resource management by focusing on accelerated implementation of five target intervention. These interventions are water conservation and rainwater harvesting, renovation of traditional and other water bodies/tanks, reuse and recharge structures, watershed development, intensive afforestation.
Official Website: https://ejalshakti.gov.in/JSA/JSA/Home.aspx
Clean My Coach
Launched 13 March 2016
Main Objective: To provide cleaning, watering, disinfection, pest control, linen/bedroll, train lighting/AC and petty Repairs services for coaches in Indian Railways.
Passengers may request for following COACH-MITRA services just by entering PNR number and mobile number in this website or Passengers can send their requests as SMS to 58888 or 9200003232 by typing CLEAN< Space ><10-digit PNR number>< Space >SERVICE TYPE CODE. Clean My Coach Application will forward the request to mobile phone of the onboard staff or the concerned control office of the particular train directly. The Railway Administration will also simultaneously receive an intimation of such requests for follow up.
Official Website: http://cleanmycoach.com/
Aadhaar and Other Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2018
Introduced 2 January 2019
Main Objective: To verify person’s identity through aadhaar authentication
Minister of Law and Justice, and Electronics and Information Technology, Mr. Ravi Shankar Prasad, in Lok Sabha on January 2, 2019. The Bill amends the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016, the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. The Aadhaar Act provides targeted delivery of subsidies and benefits to individuals residing in India by assigning them unique identity numbers, called Aadhaar numbers.
The Bill additionally allows offline verification of an individual’s identity, without authentication, through modes specified by the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) by regulations. During offline verification, the agency must obtain the consent of the individual, inform them of alternatives to sharing information and not collect, use or store Aadhaar number or biometric information.
Official Website: uidai.gov.in
Aarogya Setu App
Launched: 17 April 2020
Main Objective: To track and prevent Coronavirus (COVID-19) spread.
Central govt. launches Aarogya Setu mobile app which is available to download in 11 languages from google play store (android users) and apple app store (iPhone iOS users). This app will alert persons in case they come in proximity with the COVID infected persons. The app will inform users about best practices and relevant medical advisories. It is a privacy first app by design and has highly scalable architecture.
Official Website: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=nic.goi.aarogyasetu&hl=en_GBReal Estate Bill
Launched 10 March 2016 in Rajya Sabha & 15 March 2016 in Lok Sabha
Main Objective: To protect home-buyers & boost investment in real estate industry
The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 is an Act of the Parliament of India which seeks to protect home-buyers as well as help boost investments in the real estate industry. The Act establishes Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) in each state for regulation of the real estate sector and also acts as an adjudicating body for speedy dispute resolution. 
The bill was passed by the Rajya Sabha on 10 March 2016 and by the Lok Sabha on 15 March 2016. The Act came into force on 1 May 2016 with 59 of 92 sections notified. Remaining provisions came into force on 1 May 2017. The Central and state governments are liable to notify the Rules under the Act within a statutory period of 6 months.
Official Website: http://mohua.gov.in/cms/rera.php
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Gramin (Renamed from Indira Awas Yojana)
Launched 2015
Main Objective: To provide housing for rural poor in India
PMAY Gramin is a rural component of the flagship PM Awas Yojana – Housing For All (PMAY-HFA) by 2022. The central govt. has set a target of 4 crore houses to poor people in rural areas by FY 2022. Beneficiaries of the rural houses would be chosen according to data taken from the Socio-Economic Caste Census of 2011. An allowance of Rs. 120,000 in plain areas and Rs. 130,000 in hilly areas will be provided for construction of homes. Provision of toilets at Rs. 12000/- and 90/95 days of unskilled wage labour under MGNREGA over and above the unit cost.
Official Website: https://rhreporting.nic.in/netiay/newreport.aspx
Unnat Bharat Abhiyan
Launched 25 April 2018
Main Objective: To bring transformational change in rural development processes
Under Unnat Bharat Abhiyan, govt. will leverage knowledge institutions to help build the architecture of an Inclusive India. This scheme will focus on organic farming, water management, renewable energy, artisans, industries and livelihood, basic amenities, convergence.
Official Website: http://unnatbharatabhiyan.gov.in/
TB Mission 2020
Launched 28 October 2014
Main Objective: To eliminate Tuberclosis (TB) by 2020
Under TB Mission 2020, govt. has taken regulatory steps like banning commercial serology for TB diagnosis and brings anti-TB drugs under a separate schedule of the national law on drugs. This mission will prevent misuse and mandatory notification whenever a new TB case is detected.
Official Website: https://www.nhp.gov.in/disease/respiratory/lungs/tuberculosis
Dhanlakshmi Yojana
Launched 22 December 2017
Main Objective: Cash incentives to girl child
The Dhanalakshmi scheme mainly focuses to minimise female infanticide cases in India by means of providing an insurance cover. The scheme also supports education for girl child and offers alluring insurance schemes to prevent early marriage. This scheme aims at reducing child marriage cases by offering parents an attractive insurance cover and encouraging parents to educate their children. In addition to this, various medical expenses will be covered for girl babies. The aim of the scheme was to value the life of a girl child and not treat them as a liability.
Official Website: https://wcd.nic.in/schemes/dhanalakshmi
Gangajal Delivery Scheme
Launched 30 May 2016
Main Objective: Home Delivery of Gangajal by post
Gangajal Delivery Scheme aims to deliver “Gangajal” to doorstep through Indian Postal Services at nominal prices. The holy & sacred water from river ganga would be brought from Gangotri & Rishikesh.
Official Website: e commerce websites
Vidyanjali Yojana
Launched 16 June 2016
Main Objective: School Volunteer Programme
Vidyanjali Yojana aims to enhance involvement of community and private sector in government run elementary schools. The Vidyanjali scheme has been launched under the overall aegis of the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. Under the Vidyanjali Volunteer Programme, people from the Indian Diaspora, retired teachers, retired government officials including retired defense personnel, retired professionals and women who are home makers can volunteer at a school that requests for one.
Official Website: https://mygov.in/task/vidyanjali-school-volunteer-programme/
Stand Up India Loan Scheme
Launched 5 April 2016
Main Objective: To support entrepreneurship among women and SC & ST communities
Stand Up India Scheme facilitates bank loans b/w Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 1 crore to at-least 1 Scheduled Caste (SC) or Scheduled Tribe (ST) borrower and at-least 1 women borrower per bank branch. This loan amount will facilitate setting up of a green field enterprise. This enterprise may be in manufacturing, services or trading sector. In case of non-individual enterprises, at-least 51% of shareholding and controlling stake should be held by either an SC / ST or women entrepreneur.
Official Website: https://www.standupmitra.in/
Gram Uday Se Bharat Uday Abhiyan
Announced 28 March 2016
Main Objective: Village Self Governance Campaign
Gram Uday Se Bharat Uday Campaign aims to generate nation-wide efforts to increase social harmony across villages, strengthen Panchayati Raj, promote rural development, and foster farmers progress. Govt. will also provide information regarding the various schemes of the government to foster social justice.
Official Website: rural.nic.in
Samajik Aadhikarita Shivir
Launched 29 June 2017
Main Objective: Aids and Assistive devices to divyang beneficiaries.
Samajik Aadhikarita Shivir aims to look at ways through which innovation and technology can transform lives of Divyang sisters and brothers. Under this initiative, govt. provides aids and other assistance devices to Persons with Disabilities (PWDs)
Official Website: socialjustice.nic.in
PM Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana
Launched: 26 March 2020
Main Objective: To provide food to poor people under the food distribution scheme.
The central govt. has decided to provide free food to around 80 crore people in the country amid Coronavirus lockdown. PM Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana is to meet the food requirements of stranded migrant workers, daily wage earners who does not have source of income due to COVID-19 lockdown. The important feature is that there will be no requirement of any ration card / other ID proof to get food items.Railway Travel Insurance Scheme
Launched December 2017
Main Objective: To providing an insurance cover of Rs. 10 Lakh to train passengers
Railway Travel Insurance Scheme aims to provide insurance coverage of Rs. 10 lakh at less than Rs. 1 premium. Those desirous of availing travel insurance will have to shell out 68 paise as premium and the facility will only be available on tickets booked online. Travelers booking tickets from the IRCTC website or mobile application will have two options: Opt-in or opt-out. 
Railway Passenger Insurance Scheme covers risks during a train journey in addition to compensation given to passengers in case of a train mishap. Under the scheme, the insurance company would pay the nominee a sum of Rs. 10 Lakh in case of death or total disability. Rs. 7.5 Lakh in case of partial disability, upto Rs 2 lakh for hospitalization expenses and Rs 10,000 for transportation of mortal remains from the place of a train accident or where an untoward incident, including terrorist attack, dacoity, rioting, shootout or arson, occurs.
Official Website: https://www.irctc.co.in/nget/
Smart Ganga City
Launched 13 August 2019
Main Objective: To make cities near ganga river developed
Smart Ganga City Scheme had been launched in ten important cities. These cities are Haridwar, Rishikesh, Mathura-Vrindavan, Varanasi, Kanpur, Allahabad, Lucknow, Patna, Sahibgunj and Barrackpore. National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) has chosen these cities in the first phase for infrastructure development for sewage treatment.
Official Website: mowr.gov.in
Vidyalakshmi Loan Scheme
Launched 15 August 2015
Main Objective: Education loans for students
Vidya Lakshmi is a first of its kind portal for students seeking Education Loan. This portal has been developed under the guidance of Department of Financial Services (Ministry of Finance), Department of Higher Education (Ministry of Human Resource Development) and Indian Banks Association (IBA). The portal has been developed and being maintained by NSDL e-Governance Infrastructure Limited. Students can view, apply and track the education loan applications to banks anytime, anywhere by accessing the portal.
Official Website: https://www.vidyalakshmi.co.in/Students/
Swayam Prabha
Launched 15 August 2015
Main Objective: To benefit students seeking education loans
The SWAYAM PRABHA is a group of 32 DTH channels devoted to telecasting of high-quality educational programmes on 24X7 basis using the GSAT-15 satellite. Every day, there will be new content for at least (4) hours which would be repeated 5 more times in a day. Swayam Prabha allows the students to choose the time of their convenience. The channels are uplinked from BISAG, Gandhinagar. The contents are provided by NPTEL, IITs, UGC, CEC, IGNOU, NCERT and NIOS. The INFLIBNET Centre maintains the web portal.
Official Website: https://www.swayamprabha.gov.in/index.php/home
Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Sadak Yojana
Launched 2000
Main Objective: Nationwide plan in India to provide good all-weather road connectivity to unconnected villages.
Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY) is a nationwide plan in India to provide good all-weather road connectivity to unconnected villages. Out of 178,000 (1.7 lakh) habitations with a population of above 500 in the plains and above 250 in the hilly areas planned to be connected by all-weather roads, 82% were already connected by December 2017 and work-in-progress on the remaining 47,000 habitations was on-track for completion by March 2019.
Official Website: http://omms.nic.in/
Shala Ashmita Yojana
Announced 25 May 2016
Main Objective: Student tracking system programme
SAY aims to track the educational journey of school students from Class I to Class XII across the 15 lakhs private and government schools in the country. ASMITA will be an online database which will carry information of student attendance and enrolment, learning outcomes, mid-day meal service and infrastructural facilities among others. Students will be tracked through their Aadhaar numbers and incase those not having unique number will be provided with it.
Official Website: mhrd.gov.in
UDAN – Udey Desh ka Aam Nagrik
Launched 15 June 2016
Main Objective: Regional Connectivity Scheme
UDAN Scheme is the regional air connectivity scheme recently launched by the central government to make the air travel cheaper has started to see the sun of the day. According to industry chamber FICCI, about 44 airports across the country has the potential to execute operations under the scheme.
The list of 44 out of 414 underserved and unserved airports has been prepared based upon geographical, operational and commercial parameters which has potential to be part of regional connectivity scheme UDAN. The report also mentions the list of around 370 potential destinations for the shortlisted airports, including metros, state capitals and important commercial, industrial and tourism centers.
Official Website: civilaviation.gov.in
Digital Village Scheme – Digi Gaon Project
Launched 21 May 2018
Main Objective: For development of villages and to make them self sustainable
Digital Village scheme aims to provide affordable access to education, skill development and healthcare in villages. Village based Common Service Centers (CSCs) will manage Wi-Fi Choupals and will provide easy access to digital infrastructure and Internet to people.
Official Website: digitalindia.gov.in
Urja Ganga
Launched 24 October 2016
Main Objective: Urja Ganga project is a gas pipeline project for the distribution of cooking gas to residents.
Urja Ganga Project was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his constituency Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh. A pipeline of length 2540 km is planned to be laid across the states from Uttar Pradesh to Odisha. A paper titled Subsidies for Whom in The Economic and Political Weekly (EPW), published in 2012, shows that only 18 percent households consume LPG as cooking fuel and the rest use other ways of cooking like wood, kerosene, dung cakes etc which is harmful to their health.
Official Website: www.pradhanmantriyojana.co.in/urja-ganga-gas-pipeline-project/
Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat
Launched September 2018
Main Objective: To make unified and developed India
Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat aims to CELEBRATE the Unity in Diversity of our Nation and to maintain and strengthen the fabric of traditionally existing emotional bonds between the people of our Country. To PROMOTE the spirit of national integration through a deep and structured engagement between all Indian States .
Official Website: ekbharat.gov.in
Pradhanmantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY)
Launched: 25 March 2020
Main Objective: Provide financial assistance and basic facilities to 80 crore people affected by COVID-19
Pradhanmantri Garib Kalyan Yojana is a new scheme launched by Narendra Modi Government to provide free ration for 3 months and financial assistance to about 80 crore people affected by coronavirus disease or COVID-2019. Under the Garib Kalyan Yojana, the central government will provide free ration to poor, Rs. 500 per month to women jan dhan account holders, advanced pension for 3 months to all pensioners, increased daily wage for all MGNREGA workers and many other benefits to ease the lives of all affacted people in the country.Green Urban Transport Scheme (GUTS)
Launched 9 November 2016
Main Objective: To improve green urban transport facilities
Green Urban Transport Scheme (GUTS) has been launched in order to reduce pollution caused due to transportation. GUTS Scheme aims to develop and improve climate friendly transport system in urban areas and significantly reduce carbon emissions. 
Official Website: mohua.gov.in
Bharat National Car Assessment Program (Bharat-NCAP)
Launched 2017
Main Objective: To improve safety in cars
The Bharat New Vehicle Safety Assessment Program (BNVSAP) is a proposed New Car Assessment Program for India. Cars sold in the country will be assigned by star ratings based on their safety performance. It is the 10th NCAP in the world and is being set up by the government of India. All the new cars sold in India will need to comply with voluntary star ratings based on crash safety performance tests. Critical safety features such as airbags, ABS, and seat belt reminders will become standard in cars sold in India resulting from rankings and mandatory crash testing.
Official Website: based on car to buy
AMRIT Scheme
Launched 15 November 2015
Main Objective: To provide Affordable Medicines and Reliable Implants for Treatment
Affordable Medicines and Reliable Implants for Treatment (AMRIT) – is an effort of the Narendra Modi-led NDA government to reduce the expenditure incurred by patients on treatment of cancer, cardiovascular and other diseases. On these AMRIT outlets, medicines will be available for the common people at a discount rate of 60-70 per cent. 
Official Website: mohfw.gov.in
Lucky Grahak Yojana
Announced 15 December 2016
Main Objective: To promote digital payment methods for consumers
Lucky Draw Yojana is a new scheme announced by think-tank NITI Aayog to promote use of cashless digital payment methods among consumers. The government has announced daily, weekly and mega awards for the consumers using digital payments for any kind of payment. Around 15,000 consumers using digital payments will win cash-back prize of Rs. 1,000 daily.
Official Website: digidhanlucky.mygov.in
Digidhan Vyapar Yojana
Launched 15 December 2016
Main Objective: To promote digital payment methods for merchants
Digi Dhan Vyapar Yojana award scheme is for merchants who accepts payments through digital modes of payments after Demonetization. The scheme will cover transactions between Rs. 50 to Rs. 3000 to encourage poor, middle class and small businesses for cashless payments.
Official Website: digidhanlucky.mygov.in
BHIM App
Launched 2016
Main Objective: To provide unified payment interface (UPI) facility
BHIM (Bharat Interface for Money) is a mobile payment App developed by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), based on the Unified Payments Interface (UPI). This app is intended to facilitate e-payments directly through banks as part of the 2016 Indian banknote demonetisation and drive towards cashless transactions.
The app supports all Indian banks which use UPI, which is built over the Immediate Payment Service (IMPS) infrastructure and allows the user to instantly transfer money between bank accounts of any two parties. It can be used on all mobile devices.
Official Website: google play store
Urban Green Mobility Scheme
Launched 18 March 2017
Main Objective: To promote usage of green transport for citizens
The aim of new Urban Green Mobility Scheme is to address infrastructure for Bus based transport – depots, maintenance facilities, ITS etc. This scheme will bring in private entrepreneurial spirit in operations, promote Non-motorized Transport (NMT), last mile connectivity. Moreover, UGMS will also promote alternate fuels, electric Mobility for better environment. The main focus is on Urban Freight and address high fatalities of pedestrians.
Official Website: mohua.gov.in
Bharat Ke Veer Portal
Launched 10 April 2017
Main Objective: To donate to Bharat Ke Veer Corpus for Indian Army
You can donate directly to individual braveheart’s account (upto max of ₹ 15 lakhs) or may donate to the Bharat Ke Veer corpus. To ensure maximum coverage, a cap of ₹ 15 lakhs is envisaged per braveheart and the donor would be alerted if the amount exceeds ₹ 15 lakhs, so that they can choose to either decrease their contribution or divert part of the contribution to another bravehearts account, or to the Bharat Ke Veer corpus.
People can contribute for Assam Rifles (AR), Border Security Force (BSF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), National Security Guard (NSG) and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) personnels.
Official Website: bharatkeveer.gov.in
Visiting Advanced Joint Research (VAJRA) Faculty Scheme
Launched 9 January 2017
Main Objective: NRI / PIO / OCI citizens to work together as faculty
VAJRA (Visiting Advanced Joint Research) Faculty Scheme is a dedicated program exclusively for overseas scientists and academicians with emphasis on Non-resident Indians (NRI) and Persons of Indian Origin (PIO) / Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) to work as adjunct / visiting faculty for a specific period of time in Indian Public funded academic and research institutions. 
Vajra Scheme recognizes the value of collaborative research as a crucial element for information sharing among researchers for updating and acquiring knowledge and skills, and also to draw different perspectives to solve a shared problem. SERB welcomes accomplished Overseas Scientists to take up challenging research problems in the Indian setting.
Official Website: vajra-india.in
Sankalp Se Siddhi – New India Movement from 2017 – 2022
Launched 2017
Main Objective: To build New India by creating causes & mobilizing fellow citizens
Sankalp Se Siddhi is a new initiative for upcoming 5 years to better country’s economy, citizens, society, governance, security and other verticals. Various events would be organized to make the Indian citizens aware of many social issues such as discrimination, communalism, non-hygiene etc.
Official Website: https://www.mygov.in/newindia/index.html
PM Laghu Vyapari Maan-dhan Yojana or Karam Yogi Mandhan Scheme
Launched: 23 July 2019
Main Objective: Rs. 3,000 per month as Pension to Retail Traders & Shopkeepers
PM Laghu Vyapari Mandhan Yojana is a voluntary and contributory pension scheme for retail traders & small shopkeepers. Any hop owner having annual turnover less than Rs. 1.5 crore per annum can enroll himself. For this traders pension scheme, contribution is to be made depending on the age of joining and central govt. will contribute same amount. The minimum age of joining is 18 years while maximum age to join is 40 years. Under this National Pension Scheme for Traders & Self Employed Persons, all the enrolled traders will get Rs. 3,000 per month as pension on attaining the age of 60 years.
Official Website: https://maandhan.in/Jaivik Kheti Scheme
Launched 17 March 2018
Main Objective: To promote organic farming among farmers
PM Narendra Modi has launched a new Jaivik Kheti Portal to promote organic farming / jaivik kheti across the country. This portal will promote Rasayan Mukt Bharat Abhiyan and prohibits the use of chemical fertilizers for farming purpose. Accordingly, this portal will provide information on important central government schemes – Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY), Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana, Micro-irrigation and MIDH.
Official Website: jaivikkheti.in
Women Entrepreneurship Scheme
Launched 8 March 2018
Main Objective: To provide platform to women entrepreneurs
NITI Aayog starts Women Entrepreneurship Scheme portal to build an ecosystem for women entrepreneurs to scale up their innovative ideas and realize their entrepreneurial aspirations. This portal is designed on 3 pillars – Iccha Shakti, Gyan Shakti & Karma Shakti.
Official Website: wep.gov.in
Namo Yojana Center Scheme – Sewa / Sahayata Kendra
Launched 6 March 2018
Main Objective: To open Namo Yojana Sewa Kendra for poor people
Namo Yojana Center Scheme aims to open various one stop center for people living in remote areas to gather information and take benefits of welfare schemes. At Namo Yojana Centers, govt. will link around 112 central govt. schemes. Poor and downtrodden people can resolve their queries and doubts at these centers and can avail the benefits of such schemes. 
Official Website: india.gov.in
Maternity Leave Incentive Scheme
Launched 17 November 2018
Main Objective: To provide maternity benefits to employed women
Maternity Leave Incentive Scheme is new move of the central govt. to give maternity benefits to employed women. In this scheme, around 7 weeks of wages would be reimbursed to employers who employ women workers with wage ceiling upto Rs. 15,000 and provide maternity leave for 26 weeks.
Official Website: labour.gov.in
Mission Raksha Gyan Shakti
Launched 28 November 2018
Main Objective: To strengthen national defence
Mission Raksha Gyan Shakti is launched to encourage Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) for self reliance in defence production. This mission aims to facilitate filing of at-least 1,000 new IPR applications. Ministry of Defence (MoD) announces to train approx. 10,000 persons of Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSUs) and Ordnance Factories (OFs) on IPR in the FY 2018-19.
Official Website: mod.gov.in
Agriculture Export Policy 2018
Launched 18 July 2019
Main Objective: To double farm exports
This comprehensive Agriculture Export Policy 2018 aims to double exports and integrate Indian farmers and agricultural products with global value chains. This policy will diversify export basket, destinations and boost high value and value added agricultural exports including focus on perishables.
Official Website: agriculture.gov.in
Nation Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber Physical Systems
Launched 7 December 2018
Main Objective: To bring Cyber Physical Systems (CPS) and other technologies in the ambit of our country.
National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems (NM-ICPS) approved by Central government. This system will create next generation technologies for next 5 years with an outlay of Rs. 3660 crore, govt. to setup 15 technology innovation hubs (TIH), 6 application innovation hubs (AIH) and 4 technology translation research hubs (TTRP).
Official Website: dst.gov.in
Varun Mitra Yojana
Launched 1 January 2019
Main Objective: To provide jobs to unemployed youths after 21 days free training on solar energy
Varun Mitra Yojna to provide jobs & business opportunities to youths. People can download and fill Varun Mitra Yojana registration form to attend 3 weeks (120 hours) of training after which they can get employment. This Varunmitra training course is absolutely free and total number of seats are 20. This training program is to generate employment opportunities for unemployed candidates.
Official Website: mnre.gov.in
Prime Minister Universal Basic Income Scheme
Launched January 2017
Main Objective: Cash Transfer in Bank Accounts of Poor
Universal Basic Income is a periodic, unconditional cash transfer instead of in-kind transfer to every citizen in the country. In this UBI scheme 2019, social or economic positions of the individuals are not taken into consideration. UBI is universal in nature and it is not targeted. Any beneficiary will not have to prove their unemployment status or socio-economic identity to be eligible for Universal Basic Income Scheme.
Official Website: soon
PM Sampann Yojana Portal
Launched 30 December 2018
Main Objective: Track Pension Status Online
SAMPANN (System for Authority and Pension Management) Yojana Portal launched by PM Narendra Modi as Comprehensive Pension Management System (CPMS) for pensioners, track pension status online & file complaints at official CPMS portal.
Official Website: dotpension.gov.in
Pradhan Mantri Kisan Mandhan Yojana (PMKMY Farmers Pension)
Launched: 1 June 2019
Main Objective: Rs. 3,000 per month as Pension to Farmers
Pradhan Mantri Kisan Mandhan Yojana is a voluntary and contributory pension scheme for all small and marginal farmers (SMF). Any farmer having land holding upto 2 hectares (5 acres) and belonging to the age group of 18 to 40 years can enroll himself. For this farmers pension scheme, contribution is to be made depending on the age of joining and central govt. will contribute same amount. Under this PMKMY Scheme, all the enrolled farmers will get Rs. 3,000 per month as pension on attaining the age of 60 years. 
Official Website: https://maandhan.in/ or https://pmkmy.gov.in/Ujjwala Sanitary Napkin Scheme for Women
Launched 31 December 2018
Main Objective: Initiative for Women Hygiene & Employment
Ujjwala Sanitary Napkin Scheme is an initiative for women hygiene & employment. Under this scheme, cost of single pack of 8 sanitary pads is Rs. 42 & each unit will employ 5 or 6 ujjwala beneficiaries. 
Official Website: soon
Aarthik Aarakshan – 10% EWS Reservation Quota
Launched 7 January 2019
Main Objective: To provide 10% reservation to students from economically weaker sections (EWS)
Central govt. now provides 10% Aarthik Aarakshan to poor children from EWS category. This reservation is similar to quota availed by OBC / SC / ST children.
Official Website: (One Hundred And Twenty-Fourth Amendment) Bill, 2019
Credit Guarantee Fund (CGF) & Interest Subvention Scheme (ISS)
Launched 15 January 2019
Main Objective: CGF to provide credit guarantee on term loans upto Rs. 100 cr while ISS scheme to provide interest subsidy on loans worth Rs. 1,000 crore.
MeitY to start Credit Guarantee Fund (CGF) & Interest Subvention Scheme (ISS) for electronic manufacturing companies. Under this CGF scheme, central govt. will provide 50% credit guarantee on sanctioned term loans upto Rs. 100 crore. ISS scheme is going to cover term loans for plant and machinery upto Rs. 1,000 crore per borrowing unit for 10 years to setup new or expand an existing electronics manufacturing unit.
Official Website: https://meity.gov.in/
PM Pravasi Teerth Darshan Yojana
Launched 23 January 2019
Main Objective: To provide sponsored religious tours to NRIs
Prime Minister Narendra Modi has launched PM Pravasi Teerth Darshan Yojana in which a group of Indian diaspora can take tour of religious places in India. People can take up this spiritual tour for 2 times in an year under Pravasi Tirth Darshan Yojana. This travel is being conducted in order to promote awareness on different facets of life in India. 
Moreover, NRIs of Indian origin can learn the progress made by the country in various fields e.g. economic, industrial, education, science & technology, communication & information technology, culture. This scheme will enable students & young professionals of Indian origin to visit India, share their views, expectations & experiences and to develop closer bonds with the contemporary India.
Official Website: kip.gov.in
Operation Digital Board (ODB)
Launched 20 February 2019
Main Objective: To replace blackboards with digital boards in classrooms
Operation Digital Board (ODB) will enhance quality of education by providing SMART boards from class 9th onward in govt. / govt. aided / higher educational institutions (HEIs). ODB is going to make the learning and teaching process interactive and popularize flipped learning as pedagogical approach.
Official Website: mhrd.gov.in
Scheme for Higher Education Youth in Apprenticeship and Skills (SHREYAS)
Launched 27 February 2019
Main Objective: To provide training & placement opportunities to degree students
SHREYAS Scheme will provide industry apprenticeship opportunities to youth and will enable them to get gainful employment. Youths will get “On the job work exposure” and earn stipend. This is a major effort to make degree students more skilled, capable, employable and aligned to needs of economy.
Official Website: shreyas.ac.in
Gram Samriddhi Yojana
Launched 1 March 2019
Main Objective: To Create Jobs in Micro Food Processing Sector
Pradhan Mantri Gram Samridhi Yojana 2019 to create jobs in Micro Food Processing sector. Around 70,000 units with capitalization less than Rs. 10 lakh would be setup to turn farmers into job creators rather than job seekers.
Official Website: Soon
Pradhan Mantri JI-VAN Yojana
Launched 28 Feb 2019
Main Objective: To provide financial assistance to integrated Bio-ethanol projects
Pradhan Mantri JI-VAN (Jaiv Indhan- Vatavaran Anukool fasal awashesh Nivaran) Yojana will provide financial support to Integrated Bioethanol Projects using lignocellulosic biomass and other renewable feedstock. The JI-VAN Yojana will be supported with total financial outlay of Rs.1969.50 crore for the period from 2018-19 to 2023-24. The central govt. will support commercial projects, demonstration projects & administrative charges.
Official Website: finmin.nic.in
National Common Mobility Card (1 Nation 1 Card)
Launched 4 March 2019
Main Objective: Single Transport Card for Multiple Uses
National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) is an inter-operable transport card by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs of Indian government. The transport card enables the user to pay for travel, toll duties( toll tax) , retail shopping, and withdraw money. It is enabled through the RuPay card mechanism. The NCMC card is issuable as a prepaid, debit, or credit RuPay card from partnered banks such as the State Bank of India, Bank of india,Punjab National Bank, and others.
Official Website: Related bank websites
Atal Innovation Mission
Launched 26 April 2018
Main Objective: To promote a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the country.
Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) objective is to develop new programmes and policies for fostering innovation in different sectors of the economy, provide platform and collaboration opportunities for different stakeholders. AIM is to create awareness and create an umbrella structure to oversee innovation ecosystem of the country.
Official Website: https://www.aim.gov.in/
New National Education Policy 2020
Launched: 30 July 2020
Main Objective: To pave the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education in the country.
New Policy aims for Universalization of education from pre-school to secondary level with 100% GER in school education by 2030. NEP 2020 will bring 2 crore out of school children back into the main stream. A new 5+3+3+4 school curriculum with 12 years of schooling and 3 years of Anganwadi/ Pre-schooling has been introduced. There would be emphasis on foundational literacy and numeracy, no rigid separation between academic streams, extracurricular, vocational streams in schools. The vocational education will start from Class 6 with internships in the New National Education Policy 2020. Teaching upto at least Grade 5 to be in mother tongue/ regional language. 
Assessment reforms with 360 degree Holistic Progress Card, tracking Student Progress for achieving Learning Outcomes. GER in higher education to be raised to 50% by 2035 and 3.5 crore seats to be added in higher education. Higher Education curriculum to have Flexibility of Subjects and multiple entry / exit to be allowed with appropriate certification. Academic Bank of Credits to be established to facilitate Transfer of Credits. National Research Foundation to be established to foster a strong research culture. Light but Tight Regulation of Higher Education, single regulator with four separate verticals for different functions.
Official Website: https://www.mhrd.gov.in/sites/upload_files/mhrd/files/NEP_Final_English_0.pdfPradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana
Launched: 1 February 2019
Main Objective: Rs. 6000 per annum to small and marginal farmers with land holding upto 2 hectares.
All the farmers with land holding upto 2 hectares (5 acres) of land will get Rs. 6,000 per year in PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. Farmers will get 3 minimum installments of Rs. 2,000 each with an outlay of Rs. 75,000 crore. Around 12 crore small and marginal farmers would be benefitted and installments would be transferred directly into the bank accounts of the farmers.
Official Website: https://pmkisan.gov.in/Swachh Survekshan
Launched 2018
Main Objective: Ranking of cities in order of cleanliness 
Swachh Survekshan is an extensive effort to spread public awareness and enthusiasm towards Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. This survey will help people to understand the need of cleanliness and hygienic living conditions in their cities. The Swachh Survekshan ranking of the Cities is separately done for those with a population of one lakh or more (national ranking) and those below one lakh (state and zonal rankings).
Official Website: http://www.swachhsurvekshan2018.org/ & https://swachhsurvekshan2019.org/
Varishtha Pension Bima Yojana 2017
Launched 2017
Main Objective: guaranteed 8% interest rate for 10 years on pension to senior citizens
Varishtha Pension Bima Yojana 2017 is a pension scheme for senior citizens incorporated by LIC. The pension scheme aims to provide annuity payouts like an immediate annuity plan for people above 60 years of age. VPBY will provide an assured pension based on a guaranteed interest rate of 8% for 10 years up and above against market falls.
Official Website: licindia.in
Insurance Scheme for Jan Dhan Account Holders
Launched 15 February 2016
Main Objective: To provide Jan Dhan Se Jan Suraksha
This insurance scheme for Jan Dhan Account holders is also known as Jan Dhan Se Jan Suraksha. It is an umbrella scheme comprising of 3 schemes namely PM Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (Rs. 2 lakh Life insurance cover on Rs. 330 per annum premium), PM Suraksha Bima Yojana (Rs. 2 lakh accident insurance on Rs. 12 p.a premium) & Atal Pension Yojana (minimum investment, maximum pension at old age).
Official Website: jansuraksha.gov.in
MUDRA Loan Scheme for Small and Marginal Fisherman
Launched 14 March 2017
Main Objective: To provide loans to fishermen to flourish their business
In Mudra Loan Scheme for small and marginal fishermen, govt. will provide loans for the purchase of modern boats so that they can grow their business by venturing into deep sea. Big fishing boats will be given to group of fisherman so that they can go beyond 12 nautical miles, where they can catch large number of fishes. Small fishermen, instead of fishing alone, can be part of such groups and share profits.
Official Website: mudra.org.in
PMAY Loan Scheme Under CLSS for MIG
Launched 2015
Main Objective: To provide home loans at subsidy to medium income group (MIG) category people
The credit linked subsidy @ 4% will be available for loan amount up to Rs. 9 lacs in case of MIG-I and at 3% for Rs. 12 lacs in case of MIG-II. However, the banks can sanction home loans more than Rs. 9 or 12 lakhs but the subsidy will be restricted to Rs. 9 or 12 lacs. Under PMAY CLSS for MIG, an interest subsidy will be available for a tenor of 20 years or actual tenor of the loan, whichever is lower. However, Bank can sanction loans for a maximum tenor of 30 years but the loan has to be repaid before the borrower attains the age of 70 years. 
The Net Present Value (NPV) of or the subsidy will be calculated at a discount rate of 9% and will be credited upfront to the loan account. The maximum subsidy eligible under CLSS-MIG(I) is Rs. 2.35 lakhs (approx.) while maximum subsidy eligible under CLSS-MIG(II) is Rs. 2.30 lakhs (approx.).
Official Website: https://homeloans.sbi/pmay or respective bank websites
Start-Up India Scheme for Women Entrepreneurs
Launched 15 August 2015
Main Objective: To promote startups formed by women entrepreneurs
As a way to provide instant mentorship to aspiring women entrepreneurs, Startup India is organizing a Speed Mentoring session. Several panels will be set up and each panel will consist of 4 eminent women personalities including an investor, government/industry official, successful woman entrepreneur and legal specialist. The selected entrepreneur will receive an opportunity to spend 10 minutes with each stakeholder in the panel, hence receiving 40 minutes of dedicated interaction and facetime with the panelists. The purpose of Start Up India Scheme for women entrepreneurs is to enable these entrepreneurs to develop their own skills and strategies and take their ideas to the next level.
Official Website: startupindia.gov.in
Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-dhan Yojana (PM-SYM)
Launched: 1 February 2019
Main Objective: Rs. 3,000 per month to unorganized sector workers
Under Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-dhan Yojana, govt. will provide Rs. 3,000 p.m after attaining the age of 60 years to ensure old age protection for Unorganised Workers. The unorganised workers mostly engaged as home based workers, street vendors, mid-day meal workers, head loaders, brick kiln workers, cobblers, rag pickers, domestic workers, washer men, rickshaw pullers, landless labourers, own account workers, agricultural workers, construction workers, beedi workers, handloom workers, leather workers, audio- visual workers and similar other occupations whose monthly income is Rs 15,000/ per month or less and belong to the entry age group of 18-40 years are eligible.
Official Website: https://labour.gov.in/pm-symNikshay Poshan Yojana
Launched: 1 April 2018
Main Objective: Rs. 500 per month to all TB affected patients
Under Nikshay Poshan Yojana, the central govt. will provide Rs. 500 per month to all TB patients notified as on 1 April 2018. The patients who are undergoing treatment would also be eligible. This scheme will enable poor TB patients to avail treatment in any private / public sector hospitals. 
Official Website: https://nikshay.in/Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Abhiyan
Launched: 23 September 2018
Main Objective: PMJAY will provide Rs. 5 Lakh health insurance for secondary and tertiary hospitalization.
This Ayushman Bharat Yojana will benefit around 50 crore poor people and provide them cashless and paperless treatment in hospitals.
MORE DETAILS: Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya AbhiyanPM Rashtriya Swasthya Suraksha Mission (PMRSSM) – Ayushman Bharat Yojana
Announced: 1 February 2018
Main Objective: Provide Health Insurance cover of Rs. 5 Lakh to all Poor citizens
Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Swasthya Suraksha Mission (PMRSSM) is a flagship National Health Protection Scheme of Modi government. It is commonly known as Ayushman Bharat Yojana which aims to provide health insurance cover of Rs. 5 lakh for secondary and tertiary hospitalization. This scheme will benefit around 10 crore families (50 crore poor citizens) across the country.
Official Website: https://www.pmjay.gov.in/Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana (PMVVY)
Launched: 4 May 2017
Main Objective: Pension to Senior Citizens with more than 8% Interest
Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana (PMVVY) scheme is to provide pension to the senior citizens on attaining the age of 60 years. People can purchase this LIC policy in a lumpsum amount with maximum limit of Rs. 15 lakh. The plan provides for pension payments of stated amount for the policy term of 10 years, with return of purchase price with interest of at-least 8% at the end of 10 years. Pension modes are Monthly / Quarterly / Half-yearly / Yearly.
Official Website: http://www.licindia.in/Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana
Announced: 2003
Main Objective: Setup New AIIMS & Upgradation of Govt. Medical Colleges.
Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) aims to correct regional imbalances in the availability of affordable/ reliable tertiary healthcare services. It also augment facilities for quality medical education in the country. The primary focus is on setup of new AIIMS and upgradation of existing govt. medical colleges.
Official Website: http://pmssy-mohfw.nic.in/Pradhan Mantri Jan Vikas Karyakram (PMJVK)
Launched: 2 May 2018
Main Objective: Minimize the gap between national average and minority community
Pradhan Mantri Jan Vikas Karyakram (PMJVK) has been launched in order to reduce the gap between the National average and minorities on backwardness parameters. This scheme is Restructured MultiSectoral Development Programme (MsDP) and will provide better socio-economic infrastructure facilities in the field of health, education and skill development.
Official Website: http://www.minorityaffairs.gov.in/Krishonnati Yojana – Green Revolution
Announced: 11 May 2016
Main Objective: Increase the Production & Income of Farmers
Krishonnati Yojana is the name of umbrella comprising all the schemes of the government related to crop husbandry including micro-irrigation. This scheme includes 11 schemes – MIDH, NMOOP, NMSA, SMAE, SMSP, SMAM, SMPPQ, IMACES, ISAC, ISAM, NeGP-A Schemes to benefit farmers.National Youth Empowerment Scheme (N-YES) Scheme
Announced: 17 July 2018
Main Objective: Military Training & Stipend to all 10th & 12th Pass
N-YES Scheme is being planned in order to provide 1 Year Compulsory Military Training with Stipend to all the 10th and 12th Pass Candidates. NaMo govt. will make this training an essential qualification after 10th and 12th class to secure jobs in Defence, Police, and Paramilitary forces. Around 10 lakh youths will be enrolled in the 1st phase for training. N-YES Scheme will also focus on providing a disciplined and nationalist Force of Youth.NISHTHA Teachers Training Program
Launched: 18 July 2020
Main Objective: To improve learning outcomes at the elementary level through NISHTHA Teachers Training.
The main objective of NISHTHA Teachers Training Program is to motivate and equip teachers to encourage and foster critical thinking in students. HRD ministry will spread awareness among teachers and will enable them to develop their skills.
Official Website: https://itpd.ncert.gov.in/Ganga Vriksharopan Abhiyan
Launched: 9 July 2018
Main Objective: Plant Trees on the lines of Ganga River.
This campaign is to plant trees along the river banks of Ganga. The primary objective is to make holy river Ganga free from dirt and to improve the water level. Planting trees is essential for reduction in floods, soil erosion and pollution. Any Indian Citizen who wants to lend a helping hand can plant trees in Ganga Vriksharopan Abhiyan program under Namami Gange Project.Van Dhan Scheme
Launched: 14 April 2018
Main Objective: To harness forest wealth & generate livelihood for tribal people
Van Dhan Scheme is launched in order to harness non-timber forest produce and to utilize true wealth of forest (Van Dhan). This scheme will generate livelihood for tribal people. Govt. will promote and hold the collective strength of tribals through Self Help Groups (SHGs) to achieve scale.
Initially, govt. will implement this scheme in 115 aspirational districts to utilize traditional knowledge and skill sets of tribals. This would be done through the establishment of Van Dhan Vikas Kendras where govt. will provide training for sustainable harvesting / collection, primary processing & value addition.Seva Bhoj Yojana
Launched: 1 June 2018
Main Objective:Seva Bhoj Yojana will reduce the financial burden of Charitable Religious Institutions. Under this scheme, central government will waive off Goods and Service Tax (GST) on purchase of raw materials such as ghee, edible oil, atta / maida / flour, rice, pulses, sugar, burra for Langar in holy places. Now govt. will reimburse all the amount for providing free food to the public.
Official Website: https://ngodarpan.gov.in/Restructured National Bamboo Mission under NMSA
Announced: 25 April 2018
Main Objective: Increase Bamboo Plantation & Raise Farmer’s income
Restructured National Bamboo Mission scheme is to increase the net area for bamboo plantation in non-forest govt. and private lands. Promotion of Products development will be done at small, medium and micro levels to give it to larger industries.
Official Website: https://nbm.nic.in/Prime Minister Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP)
Launched: 2008-09
Main Objective: To generate Self employment and raise wages
PM Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP) aims to generate self employment opportunities through establishment of micro enterprises in non-farm sector. This is a Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme (CLSS) and will help traditional artisans and unemployed youths to raise their wages. To avail subsidy, maximum project cost is Rs. 25 lakh for manufacturing sector and Rs. 10 lakh for business / service sector. For their business, people will have to pay only 5% to 10% of total project cost.
Official Website: http://kviconline.gov.in/PMO Universal Social Security Scheme
Announced: 23 April 2018
Main Objective: Retirement, Health, Old-age, Disability, Unemployment and Maternity benefits to workers.
PMO Social Security Scheme provides all the social security benefits to the workers across the country. Universal Social Security Cover is going to provide Retirement, Health, Old-age, Disability, Unemployment and Maternity benefits to workers. This scheme is going to provide relief to a million number of under-priviledged workers.
Official Website: https://labour.gov.in/National Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme (NAPS)
Launched: 19 August 2016
Main Objective: Skill training to ITI students / Freshers / MES Pass-outs / PMKVY candidates.
In National Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme, govt. provides Reimbursement of 25% of stipend (maximum Rs. 1500 p.m) to all employers who engage apprentices. The primary objective is to promote apprenticeship training and to incentivize employers who wish to engage apprentices. This will increase the engagement of apprentices from 2.3 lakh to 50 lakh by 2020.
Official Website: http://apprenticeship.gov.in/Pradhan Mantri Rojgar Protsahan Yojana (PMRPY)
Launched: June 2015
Main Objective: Provide Incentive to Employers to Create More Jobs
PMRPY Scheme is specifically designed to incentivise employers to create new employment opportunities. In this scheme, govt. pays full employer’s contribution towards EPF & EPS both (w.e.f 01.04.2018) for new employment. This scheme will increase the employment base of workers in the establishment and thus a large number of workers find jobs in such establishments.
Official Website: https://pmrpy.gov.in/Credit Guarantee Fund Scheme for Education Loans (CGFEL)
Launched: 1st April 2009
Main Objective: Education loan Guarantee Scheme.
Students can take loans upto Rs. 7.5 lakh and the moratorium period of +1 year. To promote quality education, this scheme will cover loans to pursue professional / technical courses from NAAC / NBA accredited Institutions or Central Funded Technical Institutions (CFTIs).
Official Website: http://www.ncgtc.in/Central Sector Interest Subsidy Scheme (CSIS)
Launched: April 2009
Main Objective: Interest Subsidy on Education Loan
Under Central Sector Interest Subsidy Scheme, Interest Subsidy is given during the moratorium period (course + 1 year) on Education Loan taken from the Scheduled Banks under the Model Education Loan Scheme of Indian Banks Association. All the students belonging to economically weaker sections who have taken loans and whose total annual parental income is upto Rs. 4.5 Lakh can avail scheme benefits. This subsidy will be applicable for Professional/ Technical courses in recognized Institutions in India.
Official Website: http://mhrd.gov.in/Aatmanirbhar Skilled Employee Employer Mapping (ASEEM)
Launched: 9 July 2020
Main Objective: To help skilled people find sustainable livelihood opportunities.
The AI based Aatmanirbhar Skilled Employee Employer Mapping – ASEEM portal will provide real-time granular information by identifying relevant skilling requirements and employment prospects. It is an integrated platform to enable opportunities for growth & development for our skilled candidates, employers, training providers and government which are essential to our nation’s economy.
Official Website: https://smis.nsdcindia.org/Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA)
Launched: 2013
Main Objective: Strategic Funding to State Higher Educational Institutions
RUSA aims to raise the standards of state institutions and also to adopt accreditation as compulsory quality assurance framework. This will bring a transformation in the higher education system by creation of institutional structure, promoting autonomy and to provide good governance.
Official Website: http://mhrd.gov.in/rusaAgricultural Mechanization Promotion Scheme for Crop Residue Management
Launched: 7 March 2018
Main Objective: Promotion of Agricultural Mechanization for in-situ Management of Crop Residue to protect environment from air pollution, prevent loss of nutrients & soil micro-organisms which is caused by burning of crop residue.
Agricultural Mechanization Promotion Scheme will promote in-situ management of crop residue by retention into the soil by using appropriate mechanization inputs.
To creating awareness among stakeholders by demonstration, capacity building activities and differentiated Information, Education and Communication strategies for effective utilization and management of crop residue.
Official Website: https://farmech.dac.gov.in/Driving Training Centre (DTC) Scheme
Launched: 7 March 2018
Main Objective: To Ensure Safer Roads in India to enhance driver skills and to create employment.
Central govt. has launched Driving Training Centre Scheme. Govt. will provide training to drivers through the use of World Class Technologies. To provide financial support to private participants to setup Driving Training Centers. Accordingly, to provide high level training to commercial vehicle drivers to improve roads and environment safety.
Official Website: http://morth.nic.in/PM National Nutrition Mission (Poshan Abhiyan)
Launched: 8 March 2018
Main Objective: To tackle under-nutrition, anaemia, low birth weight
Under Poshan Abhiyan, all the adolescent girls, pregnant women and children (b/w 6 months to 3 years) will get hot cooked meals. They can take ration at home which will tackle the problem of under-nutrition, anaemia, low birth weight and stunting. National Nutrition Mission is an overall Health Care Scheme which will eliminate malnutrition at its root. This will realize the dream of “Kuposhan Mukt Bharat”.
Official Website: https://www.icds-wcd.nic.in/nnm/home.htmVehicle Scrapping Policy
Launched: 25 March 2018
Main Objective: Scrap 15 Year Old Vehicles
Under Vehicle Scrapping Policy, it is proposed to scrap 15 years or old vehicles. Govt. is keen to implement Voluntary Vehicle Fleet Modernization Programme (V-VMP) Policy to reduce pollution in the country. This will also give a boost to vehicle scrap business and thus to make it an automobile industry hub.Prime Minister Research Fellowship Scheme (PMRF)
Launched: 05 March 2018
Main Objective: Fellowship for Ph.D. Programs
Prime Minister Research Fellowship Scheme aims to attract the best talent for Doctoral Studies (Ph.D.) programs of Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and Indian Institute of Science (IISc). This fellowship will be provided to carry out research in cutting edge science and technology domains with focus on national priorities.
Official Website: https://pmrf.in/Operation Greens Mission – TOP Scheme
Launched: 1 February 2018
Main Objective: Control Prices of Tomato, Onion, Potato
Govt. will promote production of Tomato, Onion and Potato and incentivize TOP processing under Operation Greens Mission. Govt. will compress supply chains and will also provide an appropriate climate infrastructure for natural preservation of Tomato, Onion and Potato. Govt. will encourage various Farmers Producers Organizations (FPOs), agri-logistics processing facilities and professional management.Solar Charkha Scheme
Announced: 5 February 2018
Main Objective: Generation of Women Employment
Solar Charkha Scheme will provide skill training to women and thus will create employment opportunities for them. This scheme will revive and promote Khadi. The main focus is to promote green energy and reduce pollution by the use of environment friendly Khadi Fabric. It is also emphasized that all the govt. undertakings will procure 20% of their requirements from MSMEs. This scheme wil promote Khadi and also eradicate poverty through direct and indirect intervention, support and service.Kisan Urja Suraksha evam Utthan Mahabhiyan – Kusum Yojana
Announced: 1 February 2018
Main Objective: To Provide Solar Agricultural Pumps for Farmers
Kusum Scheme has been launched in order to solarize agricultural pump sets to double the income of farmers by 2022. Now farmers can setup solar agriculture pumpsets on their barren land, generate and utilize the energy and sell the excess energy to DISCOMS to earn additional income.Gobar Dhan Scheme (Galvanizing Organic Bio-Agro Resources Dhan)
Announced: 1 February 2018
Main Objective: Manage and Reuse Cattle Dung in Farming to make India ODF Free
Gobar Dhan Scheme will ensure managing and reusing cattle dung by farmers as compost and fertilizers in agriculture. Govt. will also encourage use of cattle dung as bio-fuel / bio-CNG. PM Modi asked farmers to convert waste into compost, bio-gas and bio fuel. This will reduce pollution and would result in generating additional income and thus will realize the dream of “Doubling Farmers Income by 2022”. This scheme will contribute to Swachh Bharat Mission.Affordable Rental Housing Complex (ARHC) Scheme
Launched: 9 July 2020
Main Objective: To provide affordable rental accommodation to migrant workers & urban poor to ensure ease of living.
The ARHC scheme will have a 2 pronged approach for the effective implementation. First is the existing vacant government funded housing complexes will be converted into ARHCs through a concession agreement for 25 years. As per the official data, there are 1.2 lakh such govt. houses available under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM), PMAY and other state govt’s housing schemes. Out of these, Maharashtra has 35,000 accommodations while Delhi has 30,000 accommodations. Concessionaire will make the complexes livable by repair/retrofit and maintenance of rooms. Moreover, govt. will fill up infrastructure gaps like water, sewer/ septage, sanitation, roads among others. States/UTs will select concessionaire through transparent bidding. Complexes will revert to Urban Local Bodies after 25 years to restart the next cycle earlier or to run on their own.
Official Website: https://pmay-urban.gov.in/MNRE Rooftop Solar Power Plant Subsidy Scheme
Launched: 29 January 2018
Main Objective: Setup Solar Rooftop Connections
Now all the people in the social sector and residential sector can adopt solar rooftop connections.
In this scheme, people will get 30% subsidy on the total installation cost under MNRE rooftop solar power plant connections scheme. Citizens can also avail home loans and Priority Sector Lending loans up to Rs. 10 lakh. People can consume their generated power and also reduce their electricity bills.
Official Website: https://mnre.gov.in/Stree Swabhiman Initiative
Launched: 27 January 2018
Main Objective: Ensure Women Health and Hygiene
Stree Swabhiman Initiative will focus on training and establishment of a sanitary napkin unit for women and girls to promote menstrual hygiene. Govt. will also provide support to village level entrepreneurs and Self Help Groups (SHG). The product (sanitary napkins) will be sold in the name of local brand and will be marketed by VLEs. Girls can get these sanitary pads from the CSC Centers in their villages.
Official Website: http://streeswabhiman.in/City Liveability Index Programme
Announced: 20 January 2018
Main Objective: Assess Living Conditions in Cities and give them Rankings
MoHUA will implement Liveability Index Programme for cities just like Smart City Mission. In this programme, govt. will assess the living conditions in 116 cities including 99 Smart Cities and rank them on a National basis. This would be done on the basis of 79 parameters which includes 57 core parameters and 22 supporting indicators. Govt. is going to track their growth rate to ensure better life for their citizens.Khelo India School Games
Launched: 31 January 2018
Main Objective: Identify Sports Talent in School Children & to provide Rs. 5 Lakh Scholarship
Khelo India School Games is a national level programme which aims to identify sporting talent among school children. This would be done by organizing games at school level and the top performing candidates will be selected for further training. In this training, govt. will provide Rs. 5 lakh to each of the performing candidate and will make them capable of competing at the global level to earn medals for India.
Official Website: http://kheloindia.gov.in/Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS)
Launched: December 1993
Main Objective: Overall Development of Constituency of MPs
Under MPLADS Scheme, each Member of Parliament (MP) has the choice to suggest the District Collector to carry out development works in his / her constituency. They can carry forward the public welfare tasks upto a maximum limit of Rs. 5 crore for the MP funds.
Official Website: https://www.mplads.gov.in/mplads/Default.aspxSwachh Surveskshan Program
Launched: 2016
Main Objective: Create Awareness about Swachhta
The prime focus of Swachh Surveskshan is to encourage a large scale citizen participation in keeping their surroundings and environment clean. This program will create mass awareness among all sections of the society to make towns and cities a better place to live in. This Survey will promote a spirit of healthy competition among towns and cities to improve their service delivery to citizens and to create cleaner cities.
Official Website: https://www.swachhsurvekshan2018.org/Electoral Bonds Scheme
Launched: 3 January 2018
Main Objective: Ensure Transparent Political Donation
To ensure that all the political parties are receiving clean money which is not black money, central govt. has launched Electoral Bonds Scheme. Now if anyone wants to donate money to any political party then they can purchase bonds from SBI bank for 10 days in the month of January, April, July and October and pay money in party funds. Most importantly, the name of the owner of the bonds will not be disclosed.
Official Website: https://www.sbi.co.in/Scheme For Adolescent Girls (SAG) – SABLA
Launched: 27 September 2010
Main Objective: Empowerment of Adolescent Girls
In Scheme for Adolescent Girls (SAG), all the out of school girls in the age group of 10 to 14 years will get appropriate nutrition and health services. This would reduce the number of drop-out students and govt. will implement Kishori Shakti Yojana will this scheme. This will promote self development and empowerment of adolescent girls. One of the main task is to create awareness about health, hygiene and Adolescent Reproductive & Sexual Health (ARSH).
Official Website: http://wcd.nic.in/schemes/scheme-adolescent-girls-sagFAME India Scheme II
Announced: 29 December 2017 (FAME India I in 2015)
Main Objective: Make Transport System Electric Based
Govt. is going to ensure that all the public transport facilities across the country like buses, auto rickshaw, taxis become fully electric under FAME India Scheme II. For this purpose, govt. will provide subsidy on the purchase of new electric vehicles or on the exchange of old petrol / diesel vehicles and on purchasing new electricity (charging) based vehicles. This will reduce the noise as well as air pollution which is at alarming level indifferent cities.
Official Website: https://www.fame-india.gov.in/Market Assurance Scheme
Announced: 27 December 2017
Main Objective: Price Support to Farmers
Govt. will launch a Market Assurance Scheme in order to ensure price support to rural farmers in case of distress sales. Central govt. is going to provide 30% compensation to the state govt. for losses in procurement. Farmers will get appropriate price of their crops. This will boost the agricultural production in the state and state govt. have the right to sell the procured goods anywhere.SERB Accelerate Vigyan Scheme
Launched: 2 July 2020
Main Objective: To provide a big push to high-end scientific research and prepare scientific manpower.
The aim of SERB Accelerate Vigyan Scheme is to expand the research base in the country. It has 3 broad goals namely consolidation / aggregation of all scientific training programs, initiating high-end orientation workshops and creating opportunities for Research Internships. ABHYAAS is a program of AV scheme which is an attempt to boost Research & Development (R&D) in the country. This ABHYAAS will enable and brushing potential of PG / PhD level students by developing dedicated research skills in selected areas / disciplines / elds. It is done through 2 components namely High-End Workshops (KARYASHALA) and Research Internships (VRITIKA).
Official Website: https://acceleratevigyan.gov.in/Atal Bhujal Yojana
Announced: 23 December 2017
Main Objective: Water Conservation
Atal Bhujal Yojana is a mega scheme with Rs. 6000 crore allocation and is supported by World Bank. Atal Bhujal Scheme will improve the existing conditions of all river bodies. This will help in raising the ground water level and to meet the agricultural needs of irrigation.Sustainable Rooftop Implementation for Solar Transfiguration of India (SRISTI) scheme
Launched: 22 December 2017
Main Objective: Incentive on Installation of Rooftop Solar Power Plants
This Solar Power Plant Subsidy Scheme will provide subsidy to people on installation of solar rooftop. Govt. will provides incentives for subsidy to users of the residential sector at Rs. 18,000/KW which will get calculated at benchmark cost of Rs. 60,000/KW. SRISTI scheme will increase the use of solar energy in India and residential people can adopt for cleaner electricity generation mechanism.Scheme for Capacity Building in Textile Sector (SCBTS)
Announced: 21 December 2017
Main Objective: Skill Development Training & Jobs in Textile Sector
Govt. will provide various training courses compliant to National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) under SCBTS. These courses will be for skill development and would result in creation of jobs in the Textile sector. Around 70% of the selected candidates will get salary n wage basis.GST E-Way Bill (Inter State & Intra State)
Announced: 18 December 2017
Main Objective: Compulsory E-Way Bill for goods transportation
National E-Way Bill System is now made compulsory for transporters in all the state for movement of goods. To transport the goods from one state to another Inter State E-Way Bill is now compulsory while for movement of goods within the state, Intra State E-Way Bill is compulsory. While Police checking, transporters must produce unique E-Way Bill Number to the police for verification.
Official Website: https://ewaybillgst.gov.in/National Ayush Mission (NAM)
Announced: 18 December 2017
Main Objective: Up-gradation of hospitals, dispensaries, educational institutions, pharmacies, laboratories.
AYUSH stands for Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy. This scheme will improve health services/education and cultivate medicinal plants in the far flung areas. National Ayush Mission will continue up-gradation of hospitals, dispensaries, educational institutions, pharmacies, laboratories etc. NAM also ensure co-location of various AYUSH services at Primary Health Center (PHCs), Community Health Centers (CHCs) and District Hospitals (DHs).
Official Website: http://ayush.gov.in/schemes/financial-sanctions/national-ayush-missionNorth East Special Infrastructure Development Scheme (NESIDS)
Announced: 16 December 2017
Main Objective: Infrastructure Development
NESIDS scheme will focus on development of infrastructure in North Eastern States. The main aim is to ensure connectivity, power, education, health, water supply, tourism and to promote industrialization in the NE states. Central govt. will provide 100% funds for this public welfare scheme.
Official Website: http://mdoner.gov.in/activities/nesids-guidelinesInter Caste Marriage Scheme for Dalits
Announced: 7 December 2017
Main Objective: Rs. 2.5 lakh on Marriage with Dalit
Dr. B.R Ambedkar Scheme for Social Integration through Inter Caste Marriage has been revised to Inter Caste Marriage Scheme. Under this scheme, govt. will provide Rs. 2.5 lakh for all marriages in which either a bride or a bridegroom belongs to the Dalit Caste. The primary focus is to put an end to caste system and endogamy (process of wedding in one’s own community).Pradhan Mantri Powerloom Weavers Credit Scheme
Announced: 29 November 2017
Main Objective: Financial Assistance to Powerloom Weavers
All the powerloom weavers will now get 90% financial assistance for their work. Technology Up-gradation will also be carried out to benefit all the workers in powerloom sector under Pradhan Mantri Powerloom Weavers Credit Scheme. This would be done by Sustainable and Accelerated Adoption of efficient Textile technologies to Help small Industries (SAATHI) plan. All the beneficiaries will get margin money subsidy of 20% of the total project cost. Long Term Loan facility would also remain available at just 6% interest.Pradhan Mantri Gram Parivahan Yojana (PMGPY)
Launched: 2000
Main Objective: Connecting Rural Areas with roads
PMGPY Scheme aims to connect rural areas with roads and to ensure better development of transportation facilities. New roads would be constructed to connect villages with cities or other villages under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY). The primary objective of PMGPY is to provide employment to rural youth with good roads and transportation. Govt. would provide interest free loans to Women Self Help Groups (SHGs) to buy commercial passenger vehicles.Shadi Shagun Scheme
Announced: 9 August 2017
Main Objective: Rs. 51000 to Muslim Girls
Under Shadi Shagun Scheme, govt. will provide Rs. 51000 as wedding gift to all theF girls belonging to Muslim Community. This amount would be applicable to all girls from minority sections who have completed graduation. This scheme will ensure that girls from backward sections must get necessary higher education before getting married.Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Micro Food Enterprises (PM FME) Scheme
Launched: 30 June 2020
Main Objective: To provide access to information, training, better exposure and formalization of micro food enterprises.
This PM FME scheme aims to bring in new technology apart from providing affordable credit to help small entrepreneurs penetrate new markets. Under the PM FME scheme, micro enterprises will get 35% subsidy on project cost, with a ceiling of Rs 10 lakh. The beneficiaries will have to contribute at least 10% of the project cost while the balance will come from loans. Nearly 200,000 micro enterprises will get credit-linked subsidy support.
Official Website: https://mofpi.nic.in/Saubhagya Scheme – Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana
Announced: September 2017
Main Objective: Providing Electricity to All Citizens
Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana (Saubhagya) scheme aims to provide electricity to each and every household in the country. Govt. will provide electricity meter connections to all the left out families who have still not received power supply even after 71 years of independence. This scheme wil ensure last mile electricity connectivity to all rural and urban households in the country.
Official Website: http://saubhagya.gov.in/Revitalising of Infrastructure and Systems in Education – RISE Scheme
Announced: 1 February 2018
Main Objective: Infrastructure Development in All Govt. Higher Educational Institutions
RISE scheme is going to promote Infrastructure Development in educational institutions. Govt. will provide low cost funds to all govt. higher educational institutions including Centrally Funded Institutes (CFIs) to promote higher education in schools. Govt. will also open new schools for Scheduled Tribe (ST) candidates and will also promote programmes for teachers to provide quality education to studentsRashtriya Vayoshri Yojana (RVY)
Announced: Budget 2015-16
Main Objective: Provide Assistive Living Devices to Senior Citizens
Under this Rashtriya Vayoshri Yojana scheme, govt. will provide assistive devices to senior citizens who are living below the poverty line and facing age related problems. These includes problem of low vision, hearing, broken teeths, disability etc. All the equipment will be provided to old age persons absolutely free of cost. The devices will include Hearing aids, Wheelchair, Walkers, Crutches, Tripods, Spectacles and Dentures.Pradhan Mantri Mahila Shakti Kendras (PMMSK) Scheme
Announced: 22 November 2017
Main Objective: Mission for Protection & Empowerment of Women
PMMSK Scheme will ensure empowerment of rural women through community participation and to realize their full potential. The main objective of the scheme is to increase the care, protection and development of women across the country. Improving the child sex ratio, survival of new born girl child, girl education and to empower them through several initiatives are the main goals.Pravasi Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PKVY)
Announced: 13 December 2016
Main Objective: Providing Skill Development in Comparison to International Standards
Pravasi Kaushal Vikas Yojana is going to provide skill development training to the youths in order to make capable of securing jobs outside the country. PKVY will enhance skills of youth in line with the international standards and help them getting overseas employment. This also includes pre-departure orientation training of language and soft skills.
Official Website: https://www.msde.gov.in/Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matritva Abhiyan (PMSMA)
Launched: 9 June 2016
Main Objective: Free Health Checkup for Pregnant Women
PMSMA scheme will boost the healthcare facilities for pregnant women across the country. All the pregnant women will receive Kits / Minimum package after 4 months of their pregnancy to ensure their well being. This would also ensure good health for the new born baby. Free Health Check-up and Required treatment would also be provided on every 9 date of the month. This would reduce the Maternal Mortality Rate and will make them aware of health issues / diseases.
Official Website: https://pmsma.nhp.gov.in/Pradhan Mantri Gramin Digital Saksharta Abhiyan (PMGDISHA)
Announced: 7 October 2017
Main Objective: To make Rural Citizens Digitally Literate
PMGDISHA scheme aims to empower rural citizens with information, knowledge, skills and make them capable of participating in governance. Basic training would be provided on how to operate computer, digital devices (tablets, Smartphones), send and receive e-mails, browse internet, access govt. services, search for information, make digital payment etc.
Official Website: https://www.pmgdisha.in/Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana
Announced: 18 April 2017
Main Objective: Overall Development of Food Processing Sector
SAMPADA Scheme stands for “Scheme for Agro-Marine Processing and Development of Agro-Processing Clusters”. Under this scheme, 7 schemes will get implemented which includes Mega Food Parks, Integrated Cold Chain and Value Addition Infrastructure, Creation/ Expansion of Food Processing/ Preservation Capacities (Unit Scheme), Infrastructure for Agro-processing Clusters, Creation of Backward and Forward Linkages, Food Safety and Quality Assurance Infrastructure, Human Resources and Institutions
Official Website: http://mofpi.nic.in/Schemes/pradhan-mantri-kisan-sampada-yojanaPradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana (PMMVY) – Pregnancy Aid Scheme
Announced: August 2017
Main Objective: Rs. 6000 Pregnancy Aid to women
Now all the pregnant women and lactating mothers will get Rs. 6000 financial assistance from the central government for the first living child of the family. PMMVY scheme would provide partial compensation for wage loss in terms of cash incentives so that the woman can take adequate rest before and after delivery of the first living child. This cash incentive provided would also result in improved health seeking behaviour among the Pregnant Women and Lactating Mothers (PW&LM)
Official Website: http://www.wcd.nic.in/node/712776Saur Sujala Yojana
Launched: 1 November 2016
Main Objective: Solar Power Irrigation Pumps to Farmers
PM Narendra Modi had launched this scheme in Chhattisgarh to provide Solar Powered Irrigation Pumps to farmers. Farmers will get subsidy on the purchase of agricultural pumps. These subsidized pumps will be of 3HP and 5HP on which subsidy would be provided under Saur Sujala Yojana. Farmers can utilize these pumps in irrigation and agriculture.Satyabhama – Science and Technology Yojana for Aatmanirbhar Bharat in Mining Advancement
Launched: 15 June 2020
Main Objective: To promote research and development in science and technology areas.
Central govt. will provide funds under the Satyabhama Yojana (Science and Technology Yojana for Aatmanirbhar Bharat in Mining Advancement Scheme). The funds are provided to implement R&D projects under Science and Technology Programme Scheme of Ministry of Mines. The main aim is to realize the vision to promote research in applied geosciences, mineral exploration, mining and allied areas, mineral processing, optimum utilization and conservation of the mineral resources of the country.
Official Website: http://research.mines.gov.in/Aspirational Districts Programme
Announced: January 2018
Main Objective: Transformation of Aspirational Districts
This scheme is based on 3 pillars – Convergence of Central & State govt. Schemes, Collaboration of Officers & Competition among Districts. 115 Aspirational districts (backwars districts) have been identified in India and to transform these districts, Aspirational Districts Programme has been launched. The primary focus will be on Health & Nutrition, Education, Agriculture & Water Resources, Financial Inclusion & Skill Development, and Basic Infrastructure.
Official Website: http://niti.gov.in/content/about-aspirational-districts-programmeAnti Narcotics Scheme
Launched: October 2004
Main Objective: Prevent Drug Abuse & Trafficking
This scheme will prevent drug consumption and combat illicit drug trafficking across inter state borders. Govt. will ensure reduction in demand and supply of drugs. The reduction in supply will include enforcement activities while the reduction in demand will include rehabilitation and de-addiction measures. Trafficking of narcotics drugs and psychotropic substances is a serious issue and needs to be tackled to ensure better future for youth.Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan
Announced: 28 March 2018
Main Objective: To Merge Educational Schemes into One Scheme
Govt. has launched Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan to merge 3 existing Education Schemes – Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA) and Teacher Education (TE). This scheme will provide assistance to the states to universalize access to school education from pre-nursery to class 12th. Sabko Shiksha, Acchi Shiksha is the core objective.
Official Website: http://samagra.mhrd.gov.in/Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA)
Announced: 2005
Main Objective: Provide 100 days Job Guarantee to Rural People
This labour law will include non skilled labor and will provide 100 days job guarantee in any financial year. Right to Work is the core objective and every adult citizen will be entitled to work. In case the unemployment is not provided within 15 days of registration, the applicant will provide unemployment allowance. Minimum Wage will be provided on the basis of rates fixed by the central government.
Official Website: http://nrega.nic.in/netnrega/home.aspxeBasta Project
Announced: August 2015
Main Objective: Easy Access to Digital Content
This is a common platform where all the teachers, publisher, students come together for e-learning. Basta means school bag. Digital version of school books and study material will remain available on the portal. E-Books can easily be downloaded on tablets and computers. Students Identify bastas of interest and download. School / Teachers Browse content, pick what suits, organise into bastas. Publishers upload & manage content in the portal. This App is also available for download on the smartphone.
Official Website: https://www.ebasta.in/Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY)
Launched: ‎28 August 2014
Main Objective: Financial inclusion and access to financial services for all households in the country.
Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) is a national mission to bring comprehensive financial inclusion of all the households in the country. Under the PMJDY, any individual above the age of 10 years and does not ave a bank account can open a bank account without depositing any money.
The scheme was to ensure the access to financial services such as banking / savings & deposit Accounts, remittance, credit, debit cards, insurance and pension in affordable manner. The scheme was mostly targeted to the people belonging to the Below Poverty Line but is beneficial to everyone who does not have a bank account.
Jan Dhan Yojana has seen a great success, about 21 Crore accounts have been opened in just about one and half year under the scheme. Out of the total 12.87 crore in rural area and 8.13 Crore accounts have been opened in urban areas. Despite of zero minimum balance, there is 33074.89 crore rupees balance in these accounts with 28.88% accounts opened with zero balance.
Official Website: http://www.pmjdy.gov.inPradhan Mantri Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana (PMSSY)
Launched: 22 January 2015
Main Objective: Secure the future of girl child
Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana is an ambitious small deposit savings scheme for a girl child. Under the scheme, a saving account can be opened in the name of girl child and deposits can be made for 14 years. After the girl reach 18 years of age, she can withdraw 50% of the amount for marriage or higher study purposes.
After the girl completes 21 years of age, the maturity amount can be withdrawn including the interest at rates decided by Government every year.
The investments and returns are exempt from section 80C of Indian income tax act. The maximum investment of Rs. 1.5 Lakh per year can be made while minimum deposit is Rs. 1000/- per year.
In case of more than one girl child, parents can open another account on the different name but only for 2 girl child. Only exception is that the parents have twins and another girl child.
Official Website: http://www.nsiindia.gov.inPradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana (PMMY)
Launched: 8 April 2015
Main Objective: Financial support for growth of micro enterprises sector.
Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana (Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency) was launched with the purpose to provide funding to the non-corporate small business sector. Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY) is open and is available from all Bank branches across the country.
The small businesses/startups or entrepreneurs can avail loans from Rs. 50 thousand to 10 Lakh to start/grow their business under the three, Shishu, Kishore and Tarun categories of the scheme.
As per the official website of PMMY, 27344053 number of loans have been sanctioned under the scheme till 26 February 2016. The amount sanctioned has reached more than Rs. 1 Lakh Crore.
Official Website: http://www.mudra.org.inPradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY)
Launched: 9 May 2015
Main Objective: Provide life insurance cover to all Indian citizens
Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana is a government backed life insurance scheme in India aimed at increasing the penetration of life insurance cover in India. The scheme is open and available to all Indian citizens between the age of 18 to 50 years.
Under the scheme, the policy holder can get a life insurance cover of Rs. 2 Lakh with an annual premium of just Rs. 330 excluding service tax. All the Indian citizens between 18-50 years of age with a saving bank account are eligible to avail the scheme.
Official Website: http://www.jansuraksha.gov.inPradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY)
Launched: 9 May 2015
Main Objective: Provide accidental insurance cover to all Indian citizens
Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana is also a government backed accident insurance scheme in India aimed at increasing the penetration of accidental insurance cover in India. The scheme is open and available to all Indian citizens between the age of 18 to 70 years.
Under the scheme, the policy holder can get a life insurance cover of Rs. 2 Lakh with an annual premium of just Rs. 12 excluding service tax. All the Indian citizens between 18-70 years of age with a saving bank account are eligible to avail the scheme.
Official Website: http://www.jansuraksha.gov.inPradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan
Launched: 18 June 2020
Main Objective: To provide jobs / employment opportunities to migrant workers and rural citizens.
The new massive rural public works scheme will empower and provide livelihood opportunities to the returnee migrant workers and citizens in villages. PMGKRA Rural employment campaign will involve intensified and focused implementation of 25 types of works. The main objective is to provide employment work to migrant workers. Moreover, govt. will also focus on creation of infrastructure in rural regions of the country. The resource envelope for PM Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan is of Rs. 50,000 crore.
Atal Pension Yojana (APY)
Launched: 9 May 2015
Main Objective: Increase the number of people covered under any kind of pension scheme.
Atal Pension Yojana is one of the three Jan Suraksha schemes launched by PM Narendra Modi. APY is aimed at increasing the number of pension scheme beneficiaries across the country. The scheme is especially targeted to the private unorganized sector and is open to all Indian citizens between the age of 18 to 40 years.
Under the scheme, the beneficiary have to make contribution for at least 20 years before he/she can get pension after attaining age of 60 years. The scheme provides a monthly pension of Rs 1000 to Rs. 5000 per month based on the contribution amount.
Official Website: http://www.jansuraksha.gov.inPradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY)
Launched: 25 June 2015
Main Objective: Achieve housing for all by the year 2022, 2 crore in Urban and 3 Crore homes in Rural areas.
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana is an ambitious scheme of Narendra Modi Government. Under the PMAY, the government aims to provide about 5 Crore affordable homes to the people belonging to EWS and LIG categories by the year 2022. There is a target of building 2 crore homes in urban area and 3 crore in rural areas across the country.
Under the scheme, the government will provide financial assistance to the poor home buyers, interest subsidy on home loan and direct subsidy on homes bought under the scheme.
Official Website: http://mhupa.gov.inSansad Adarsh Gram Yojana (SAGY)
Launched: 11 October 2014
Main Objective: Social, cultural, economic, infrastructure developments in the villages, i.e. development of model villages called “Adarsh Gram”
Under the Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana, Members of Parliament (MPs) will be responsible for developing the socio-economic and physical infrastructure of three villages each by 2019, and a total of eight villages each by 2024.
Official Website: http://rural.nic.inPradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY)
Launched: 11 October 2014
Main Objective: Provide insurance cover to rabi and kharif crops and financial support to farmers in case of damage of crops.
In order to make crop insurance simpler and cheaper for the farmers and to provide them with better insurance services, a Central Sector Scheme of Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) was launched by the Government of India replacing NAIS and MNAIS.
Under the new scheme, farmers will have to pay a uniform premium of two per cent for all kharif crops and 1.5 per cent for all rabi crops. The scheme will be implemented from the kharif season of FY 2016.
Official Website: https://pmfby.gov.in/Pradhan Mantri Gram Sinchai Yojana (PMGSY)
Launched: 01 July 2015
Main Objective: Irrigating the field of every farmer and improving water use efficiency to provide `Per Drop More Crop’.
The scheme is aimed to attract investments in irrigation system at field level, develop and expand cultivable land in the country, enhance ranch water use in order to minimize wastage of water, enhance crop per drop by implementing water-saving technologies and precision irrigation.
All the States and Union Territories including North Eastern States are covered under the programme.
The government has approved Rs.50,000 crore for the implementation of Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana for next 5 years, i.e. up to 2020.
Official Website: http://agricoop.nic.inPradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Yojana (PMJAY)
Launched: March 2016 (Expected)
Main Objective: Provides drugs/medicines at affordable cost across the country.
The scheme is a new version of earlier Jan Aushadhi Yojana, to be renamed as Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi Pariyojana, the scheme aims to open 3000 Jan Aushadhi stores to sell drugs at affordable cost.
Under the scheme, over 500 medicines will be sold through Jan Aushadhi stores at price less than the market price. Private hospitals, NGO’s, and other social groups are eligible to open the Jan Aushadhi stores with a onetime assistance of Rs. 2.5 Lakh from the central Government.
Official Website: http://janaushadhi.gov.inMake in India
Launched: 25 September 2014
Main Objective: To encourage multi-national, as well as domestic companies to manufacture their products in India and create jobs and skill enhancement in 25 sectors.
The major objective behind the initiative is to focus on job creation and skill enhancement in 25 sectors of the economy. The initiative also aims at high quality standards and minimising the impact on the environment. The initiative hopes to attract capital and technological investment in India.
Official Website: http://www.makeinindia.comSwachh Bharat Abhiyan
Launched: 2 October 2014
Main Objective: To fulfil Mahatma Gandhi’s dream of a clean and hygienic India.
Swachh Bharat Mission is being implemented by the Ministry of Urban Development (M/o UD) and by the Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation (M/o DWS) for urban and rural areas respectively.
Official Website: http://swachhbharat.mygov.inKisan Vikas Patra
Launched: 3 March 2015 (Re-Launched)
Main Objective: To provide safe and secure investment avenues to the small investors.
Kisan Vikas Patra is an investment scheme wherein the invested money will get doubled in 8 years and 4 months. However, investors would not get any tax benefit for their investment in Kisan Vikas Patra unlike in PPF. The Kisan Vikas Patra certificates would be available in the denominations of Rs 1,000, 5,000, 10,000 and 50,000 and there is no upper limit on investment in KVPs.
Official Website: http://www.nsiindia.gov.inSoil Health Card Scheme
Launched: 17 February 2015
Main Objective: To help farmers to improve productivity from their farms by letting them know about nutrient/fertilizer requirements for their farms.The soil health card studies and reviews the health of soil or rather we can say a complete evaluation of the quality of soil right from its functional characteristics, to water and nutrients content and other biological properties. It will also contain corrective measures that a farmer should adopt to obtain a better yield.
Official Website: http://www.soilhealth.dac.gov.in