


Table of Contents

Telangana 2 BHK Housing Scheme Merge with PMAYUnits Pricing in Telangana 2BHK Housing SchemeEligibility for Two BHK Housing Scheme in TelanganaReservation in Telangana 2 BHK Housing SchemeDetails for Filling 2BHK Housing Scheme Application Form
Telangana govt. 2BHK Housing Scheme or Dignity Housing Scheme is offering homes to eligible beneficiaries absolutely free of cost. This two BHK scheme was introduced in October 2015 in order to ensure shelter to poor people. Now the state govt. will link 2 BHK housing scheme with Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY). 
In the Telangana state, flats priced b/w Rs. 5 lakhs to Rs. 8.65 lakhs are given free of cost to beneficiaries. Housing department has taken construction of 2.8 lakh units. The main purpose to merge 2 BHK Housing Scheme with PMAY is to utilize funds for construction. 
On merger of these 2 schemes, Rs. 1.5 lakh per unit from PMAY funds would be able to flow into state’s scheme. Till date, only 3000 units are ready for occupation under 2 BHK scheme while govt. aims to construct another 20,213 units.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana 2 BHK Housing Scheme Merge with PMAY
A single housing unit under 2 BHK scheme costs around Rs. 5.30 lakhs. After merger of 2 BHK housing scheme with PMAY, Telangana govt. will have to provide Rs. 3.80 lakhs per unit. The state govt. will raise Rs. 2,500 crore from Housing and Urban Development Corporation (Hudco), Rs. 1,365 crores from PMAY funds and Rs. 185 crores from the state’s revenue. Till date, govt. has spent Rs. 6,792 crore on 2BHK Housing scheme in Telangana while the total developed space is 7 lakh sq.ft.
Units Pricing in Telangana 2BHK Housing Scheme
Telangana govt. aims to develop basic infrastructure & thus the total cost of unit is higher. As per an estimate, cost of project of 2 BHK housing scheme is Rs. 18,000 crore & Rs. 3,230 crores have already been sanctioned. To develop infrastructure, the state govt. is also seeing assistance from central government.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state govt. will take care of basic infrastructure which includes water supply lines, electricity lines, approach and internal roads, drainage and sewerage lines. Telangana govt. will also seek central govt’s assistance under Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana (Saubhagya)to provide power connections to each households.


Area
Unit Cost With Infrastructure
Unit Cost Without Infrastructure


House
Infrastructure
Total


Rural
5.04 lakhs
1.25 lakhs
6.29 lakhs
5.04 lakhs


Urban
5.3 lakhs
75,000
6.05 lakhs
5.3 lakhs


GHMC up to G+3
7 lakhs
75,000
7.75 lakhs
7 lakhs


GHMC C+S+9
7.9 lakhs
75,000
8.65 lakhs
7.9 lakhs


All these units have 2 bedrooms, one hall and 1 kitchen along with 2 toilets with plinth area of 560 sq.ft. The total area of plot is 125 sq.yards. Accordingly, people not only gets property but also gets land free of cost. 
Eligibility for Two BHK Housing Scheme in Telangana
To become eligible, family must belong to Below Poverty Line (BPL) category and must hold food security or ration card. All the homes are sanctioned in the name of women to encourage women household ownership. The beneficiary family must not possess any other property under any other housing scheme.
Reservation in Telangana 2 BHK Housing Scheme
In the 2 BHK Scheme, around 5% units are reserved for Persons with Disabilities (PWDs). In urban areas, there is 17% reservation for SC, 6% for ST, 12% for minority & 65% for other category people. In the rural areas, 50% of units are reserved for SCs & STs, minorities get 7% and 43% is open for others.
Details for Filling 2BHK Housing Scheme Application Form
All those people who wants to get home in 2BHK housing scheme have to fill application to get benefits of Double Bedroom Housing Scheme. In the application form, people needs to enter details of family, address, years spent in rented house, disability ID (if any) & Asara Pension Scheme. The application needs to be submitted at a MeeSeva centre or at the Gram Sabha.
The state govt. is constructing homes in over 40 locations with Ranga Reddy, Medchal, Sanga Reddy districts coming under Phase-I. Moreover in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), the state govt. has identified 28 slums. As of Jan 2019, around 88,115 units were being constructed in vacant locations. In addition to this, around 9,188 units are developed in in-situ slums. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://housing.com/news/all-you-need-to-know-about-the-telangana-governments-2bhk-scheme/
SAVE AS PDF

तेलंगाना वोटर लिस्ट 2020 (PDF) अब सीईओ की आधिकारिक वेबसाइट ceotelangana.nic.in पर उपलब्ध है, नयी मतदाता सूची में अपना नाम अपनी जानकारी या EPIC नंबर के आधार पर खोजें और वोटर ID कार्ड डाउनलोड करें

Table of Contents

CEO Telangana Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Roll) DownloadTelangana Voter ID Card Download Online – Find by Name / EPIC No. / House No.Check Telangana Voter ID Application Status
Election Commission of India had announced the Lok Sabha election dates and conducted voting on 11th April 2019 (Phase 1) in the Telangana state. Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Telangana is responsible for successful conduct of elections across the state. Accordingly, CEO publishes and updates the voter list (electoral roll with photo) @ ceotelangana.nic.in prior to elections. Now people can find their name in the CEO voters list 2020, perform voter list sms verification and can download voter ID card before casting their vote.
As the Lok Sabha elections are inching closer, CEO dept. is regularly updating its voters database and final voter list is available. Now people can check their name in the district-wise voter list along with their photo. Even those citizens who have already applied for the voter card can now check their application status online.
Moreover, people can download the entire PDF file of the Electoral Roll (Voter List) and perform manual searching in the Voter List 2020 in Telangana. In addition to this, people can adopt a hassle free process and check their names online.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

CEO Telangana Voter List 2020 (PDF Electoral Roll) Download
People can now download the complete assembly constituency wise voters list (PDF) to check whether their name appears in the voters list with photo at the CEO Telangana website. The complete procedure to download the final electoral roll / district wise voters list 2020 is given below:-

Firstly, visit the official website ceotelangana.nic.in
At the homepage, scroll at the “PDF Electoral Rolls” section and click at the “Assembly Constituency” link
Download Voter List 2020 Telangana
Direct link – Telangana Voter List with Photo Download
Here candidates can select the “District” and “Assembly constituency” and then click at the “Get polling Stations” button to get the details of polling stations as shown below:-
Voter List 2020 Polling Station wise Telangana
Here candidates can click at the “View” link and enter “captcha” to open the district wise voters list as shown below:-
Telangana CEO Voters List PDF Download
Accordingly, people can check their electors name, father’s name, house number, age, sex and download their voter slips to cast their vote.

Finally candidates can perform manual search to find there name in the complete Telangana voter list with photo. All the citizens can click at the link – Voter List SMS Verification to verify name in the electoral roll through SMS.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana Voter ID Card Download Online – Find by Name / EPIC No. / House No.
Below is the complete procedure to find your name online in Telangana voters list (assembly constituency wise) and download the Voter ID Card:-

Candidates can find their name online in the CEO voter list of Telangana by visiting the same official website ceotelangana.nic.in
At the homepage, scroll over the “Search Your Name” tab in the header and click at the “Assembly Constituency” link as shown below:-
Telangana Voter ID Search by Name
Then people can check their name in the Telangana voter list 2020 online using either house number or name or photo identity card number (EPIC number) as shown in the figure below:-
Find Name Voter List Telangana Name EPIC Number Photo
Here candidates can find their name online by entering their district name, assembly constituency name and any one search criteria. Finding name criteria includes either search by name or search by house number or search by EPIC number. After entering details, click at the “Search” button to find their name online in voters list and download voter ID card as shown below:-
Telangana Find Name Voter ID Card Download
Finally, after finding their name online, candidates can download the Voter ID Card and take a printout of the voter slip as shown below:-
Telangana Voter ID Card Download Online

This voter slip will serve you the purpose of right to vote as with this voters slip will enable you to cast your important vote. All those people whose name does not appears in the electoral roll does not have to worry. They can make online enrollment for the Telangana voter list and can then download their voter ID card.
Check Telangana Voter ID Application Status
To ensure greater participation of citizens in this biggest festival of democracy i.e assembly elections, EC invites online registrations for voter cards. In case, the name of the candidate is not present in the electoral roll (voters list) of Telangana, then candidates needs to make voter ID card registration and fill Form No. 6 to get their name included in the voters list. If the candidates have already submitted the completed application form to booth level officers (BLO) or ERO, then applicants can check their status through the link below:-
Telangana Voter ID Application Status
After clicking at the link to check application status of voter ID, a new window will open as shown below:-
Telangana Voter ID Status Check
Here candidates needs to enter their “Application ID” along with the form number which a candidate has submitted or “House Number” and click at the “Search” button to perform voter ID status check. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: ceotelangana.nic.in
SAVE AS PDF

Telangana government has announced Unemployment Allowance Scheme in the Budget 2019-20 for jobless youths. Under this scheme, the state govt. is going to provide Rs. 3,016 per month to all the eligible unemployed candidates. CM KCR govt. has proposed Rs. 1,810 crore in his vote-on-account budget to provide berojgari bhatta.
CM K Chandrasekhar Rao has also announced the launch of a new Farm Loan Waiver Scheme in Telangana. Under this new Crop Loan Waiver Scheme, govt. will waive off crop loans of farmers upto Rs. 1 lakh outstanding till 11 December 2018. For Telangana Farm Loan Waiver Scheme, the state govt. has allocated Rs. 6,000 crore.
Assistance under Rythu Bandhu Scheme in Telangana has also increased from Rs. 4,000 per acre per crop per season (Rs. 8,000 p.a) to Rs. 5,000 per acre per season (Rs. 10,000 p.a). 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana Unemployment Allowance Scheme (Berojgari Bhatta)
The state govt. of Telangana has presented its budget on 22 February 2019 with an estimated expenditure of Rs. 1,82,017 crore which is 4% increase over the previous year. The state govt. has announced to launch Telangana Unemployment Allowance Scheme for unemployed youths. Under this berojgari bhatta scheme, the state govt. will provide Rs. 3,016 p.m to all eligible jobless candidates. For this scheme, the state govt. has allocated Rs. 1,810 crore in the budget. 
The details of the scheme are being worked out. Instructions have been given to officials in this regard. This announcement is made by CM K Chandrasekhar Rao in the Budget 2019-20 for the welfare of jobless candidates. CM KCR said that the GSDP of Telangana has been doubled since the formation of the state in FY 2014. The new budget showed a revenue expenditure of Rs. 1,31,629 crore and a capital expenditure of Rs. 32,815 crore.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

In Telangana Budget 2019-20, the estimated revenue surplus is Rs. 6,564 crore and fiscal deficit is Rs. 27,749 crore. The fiscal deficit is 2.81% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). The own revenues of the state for Budget Estimate (BE) of 2019-20 are at Rs. 94,776 crore in comparison with the Revised Estimate (RE) of 2018-19 at Rs. 72,777 crore. The transfer from the central govt. as per BE 2019-20 is Rs. 22,835 crore while in RE 2018-19, these are estimated at Rs. 28,042 crore.

The Scheme aimed at providing Rs.3,016 Allowance to the unemployed is being worked out. Rs. 1,810 Cr set aside for 2019-20.#TSBudget2019 #TelanganaBudget2019 pic.twitter.com/biPRudMKaa
— Telangana CMO (@TelanganaCMO) February 22, 2019

The growth rate of GSDP of Telangana at constant prices was 4.2% in 2 years prior to state formation. By the 2017-18, this accelerated by more than twice to 10.4%. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Telangana government plans to start Farm Loan Waiver Scheme Second Phase worth Rs 24,000 crore in a phase wise manner. The timeline for this crop loan waiver scheme is yet to be decided and the Telangana state govt. will implement this scheme after the Lok Sabha elections. 
As pre-poll promise of the Telangana Rashtriya Samiti (TRS) in FY 2014, CM KCR had waived off all kind of farm loans which cost Rs. 17,000 crore to the state exchequer. This process of waiving off crop loans was completed in 2017. 
Latest Update – CM KCR announces Telangana Crop Loan Waiver Scheme in Budget 2019-2020.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana Farm Loan Waiver Scheme 2nd Phase
The 2nd phase of Farm Loan Waiver Scheme in Telangana is going to include all kinds of loans taken for agricultural purposes. This scheme to waive off agriculture loans of farmers will be implemented with an outlay of Rs. 24,000 crore. As per the official reports, the state govt. is working to finalize the modalities of this scheme. 
KCR government has definite plans to implement its plans and would not be shooting arrows in the dark. On direct cash benefit transfer or Rythu Bandhu Scheme, govt. would waive off farm loans worth Rs. 1 lakh and would increase the incentive to Rs. 10,000 per acre. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Till date under Rythu Bandhu Scheme in Telangana, the state govt. provides Rs. 8,000 per acre per year per crop in 2 phases. These includes Rs. 4,000 per acre each for Kharif and Rabi seasons. CM KCR had made it clear that tenant farmers are not going to be included in the Rythu Bandu Scheme and they would have to be taken care off by the land owners.
The state govt. is also working on finding an absolute solution on unemployment by giving allowances to jobless youth. Telangana govt. will form a policy on roads and is going to spend huge amount on development of existing major roads and connect every new gram panchayat with BT road. 
The state govt. would also strictly enforce new Panchayati Raj Act to ensure clean and green villages. Every person who is found littering, would have to pay a fine of Rs. 500.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Telangana govt. has launched Integrated Fisheries Development Scheme (IFDS) on 5 September 2018. Under this scheme, govt. will spend most of the amount for fisheries development and will provide subsidy on the cost of inputs to the beneficiaries. CM K Chandrashekhar Rao has formally launched this Fisheries Scheme with an outlay of Rs. 1,000 crore. 
Out of this Rs. 1,000 cr, the state govt. will spend Rs. 856 cr while Rs. 144 crore will be the share of costs of various inputs. For these inputs, the amount would be provided at highly subsidized rates to the beneficiaries.
CM KCR wants to develop fisheries production in the state and to raise the living standards of fishermen. At the launch event, CM also distributed valuable equipment to promote fish farming. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana Integrated Fisheries Development Scheme (IFDS)
The important features and highlights of TS Fisheries Development Scheme are as follows:-

The state govt. will provide inputs like supply of fish seed, construction of landings for boats and catch near lakes, tanks and reservoirs at 100% subsidy.
Under IFDS, people will get 75% subsidy to purchase high quality nets, two wheelers and luggage autos, vehicles for mobile shops to sell fish. In addition, Insulated vehicles will also attract subsidy for the transportation of the catch.
IFDS Scheme also comprises of provision for the construction of hatcheries to raise fingerlings, setting up of fish feed manufacturing units, processing and ice manufacturing plants at 75% subsidy.
IFDS will also include subsidy ranging from 80% to 90% to set up kiosks for selling fish, fish products & boats.
A total number of 1,61,376 units will be provided to around 5000 beneficiaries under IFDS.

CM KCR has launched this Integrated Fisheries Development Scheme (IFDS) on 5 Sept 2018 at People’s plaza near Hussain Sagar. At the official launch event, families of 2 fishermen received an ex-gratia of Rs. 4 lakh each who have lost their bread winners in accidents.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Objectives of IFDS Scheme in Telangana
This scheme is being launched in accordance with the following objectives:-

Increasing fish production and productivity by providing backward and forward linkages & enhancing livelihoods of fishers.
To achieve self-sufficiency in production of fish seed.
Ensuring availability of fish to the consumers at affordable prices and in hygenic conditions by improving the marketing infrastructure.
Welfare of fishers.

For more details, visit the official website http://fisheries.telangana.gov.in/ifd.php





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Telangana govt. has launched Balika Arogya Raksha Kits Scheme 2018 for girls studying in various schools across the state. Under this scheme, all the school girls will get a free Health and Hygiene Kit with 13 basic items. Deputy CM Kadiyam Srihari said that the state govt. is spending Rs. 20,000 crore p.a on education. Minister launches Balika Aarogya Raksha Health & Hygiene Kit Scheme and distributed kits to students of Telangana State Residential School for Girls & Junior colleges.
Under Balika Arogya Raksha Kits Scheme in Telangana, the state govt. will spend Rs. 100 crore per year for the distribution of Health & Hygiene kits. The state govt. will spend Rs. 1,600 on each student studying in Class 7th to Intermediate (12th). This Girl Health Protection Kit Scheme will benefit around 6 lakh girl students of the state-run educational institutions across Telangana.
This is a first-of-its-kind initiative in the country. This initiative was launched at an event held at Hasanparthi Residential College on 24 August 2018.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Balika Arogya Raksha Kits Scheme in Telangana – List of Items
These Health protection kits were previously given to only those who are studying in residential schools. This time the state govt. has decided to provide Balika Arogya Raksha Kits to students of all schools. All the school girls studying in Class 7th to Class 12th will be covered under this scheme. Each Kit will contain 13 items which are listed below:- 


List of Items


Patanjali bathing soap
Detergent soap


Dabur Coconut Hair Oil
Comb


Shampoo
Toothbrush


Toothpaste
Tongue Cleaner


Eytex Facial Powder
Sticker Bindis


Nylon Ribbons
Hair Bands


Sanitary Napkins



It is getting an excellent response from the girls students in the state. This scheme will promote girls towards a clean and healthy atmosphere. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana Health & Hygiene Kits Scheme – Balika Aarogya Raksha Scheme
In previous years, Telangana state under CM KCR has become a beacon of development and stands apart in education, health and various other sectors. The state govt. is consistently working hard to provide required infrastructure and to raise the overall standard of education.
Health Hygiene Kits Scheme Telangana
Due to the efforts of Telangana govt., enrollment ratio in various state run schools has been increased. The state govt. is providing quality education to 5 lakh students through gurukul schools and is also providing rice and non-vegetarian food to students. Deputy CM has also inaugurated additional classrooms and hostel rooms on this occasion.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

Telangana Kanti Velugu Program – Free Eye Check-Up SchemeEye Camps under Kanti Velugu ProgrammeReferences
Telangana govt. has launched Kanti Velugu Program to achieve “Avoidable Blindness Free” status. In this Free Complete Eye Check Up Scheme, govt. will perform Universal Eye Screening of citizens to treat refractive errors, cataract and other ailments. Moreover in this Light for Eyes Programme, concerned authorities will create a database of eye health profile of citizens linked to Aadhaar Number. All services will be given absolutely free of cost to benefit 3.70 crore residents.
Kanti Velugu Program 2018 will also include distribution of spectacles and surgeries to treat various eye disorders. Chief Minister KCR has launched this Universal Eye Screening Program in Malkapur Villages in Medak district on 72nd Independence Day i.e 15 August 2018.
GHMC, Self Help Groups and other revenue officials will distribute eye screening slips just like distribution of voter slips. Eye Camps will be organized in various areas of the state for Universal Eye Care. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana Kanti Velugu Program – Free Eye Check-Up Scheme
This Free Eye Check up Scheme is a massive first of its kind initiative in the country to benefit 3.70 crore citizens. The main objectives of this Kanti Velugu Programme are as follows:-

To conduct universal eye screening and vision tests for all citizens of the state.
In case of refraction errors, spectacles will be provided free of cost.
Surgeries will be organized in case of Cataract, Glaucoma, Retinopathy, Corneal Disorders.
For Vitamin A deficiency and Eye infections, medicines will be provided free of cost.
To educate people on prevention of serious eye disabling diseases.
Kanti Velugu Programme in Telangana

All the services to be provided are absolutely free of cost. This scheme will provide benefits to all residents irrespective of their Socio-Economic status. Even a 30 day old baby can be treated for Retinoblastoma. This is an essential step as around 30% to 40% citizens in the state are suffering from eye problems.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Eye Camps under Kanti Velugu Programme
Various Eye Camps will be organized in different parts of the state to identify and treat eye disorders. Important features and facilities being provided to people at these Eye Camps are as follows:-
— Medical teams will conduct Eye Camps. Each Medical team will comprise of 1 Medical Officer, 2-3 MPHS (Male) & (Female), 1-2 Optometrists, Pharmacist, 2-3 ASHA Workers and 1 Data Entry Operator.
— Each team will get a full time vehicle and will be equipped with essential devices, materials and drugs to provide services.
— In Rural areas, Camps will be organized PHC-Wise in all Gram Panchayats in Rural areas. In GHMC areas and other Urban areas, camps will be held Ward Wise.
— Data of each person walking in for treatment will be captured electronically on a software. This will ensure tracking of follow up services for surgery and distribution of glasses accurately.
Expected Outreach of Kanti Velugu Programme


Overall Population covered
3.5 Crores


Total Glasses / Spectacles to be provided
41,05,808


People to be given Primary Care
50 Lakhs


People to be given Secondary Care
3,31,178


Number of people to be given Tertiary Care
14,283


It is expected that the total budget of this scheme will be around 106.84 crore. Out of this, the state govt. will provide Rs. 84 crore while the remaining amount of Rs. 24 crore will be tapped under National Health Mission.
References
— For more details, see the official notification – Kanti Velugu Program Notification
— Visit the official website – http://chfw.telangana.gov.in/homeTSACS.do





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Telangana government has launched Rythu Bandhu Life Insurance Bonds Scheme 2018 for farmers. Under this scheme, govt. will provide Rs. 5 lakh insurance to ryots. All the families of farmers covered under Rythu Bandhu Scheme will get this amount irrespective of whether the death is natural or accidental.
All the farmers between the age group of 18 to 60 years can avail benefits of Rythu Bandhu Life Insurance Bonds Scheme. This Life Insurance Scheme will benefit around 28 lakh (2.8 million) farmers out of the total 5.8 million farmers. 
This is first of its kind initiative across the country and the state govt. has marked the official launch of the scheme on 6 August 2018. Most of the bonds are expected to be given to the farmers by 15 September 2018.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana Rythu Bandhu Life Insurance Bonds Scheme 2018
The important features and highlights of this Life Insurance Scheme are as follows:-

All the land owners who have received monetary assistance of Rs. 4,000 under the Input / Financial Investment Support Scheme (FISS) are eligible.
This scheme is limited to farmers falling in the age group of 18 to 60 years.
The insurance amount in case of either death or accident will be given to the family of farmers in 10 days itself. The state govt. has made an investment of around 650 crore in Rythu Bandhu Life Insurance Bonds.
Rythu Bandhu Life Insurance Bonds (as the scheme is called) is expected to benefit 2.8 million farmers (out of 5.8 million).
Previously under the Rythu Bandhu Scheme, the state govt. has given investment support to bear farming costs to boost agricultural production.
On 6th August 2018, Agriculture Minister Pocharam Srinivas has distributed the life insurance bonds to farmers in Kamareddy district. Various officials from the agriculture department took up the distribution in other parts of the state.
The state govt. believes that most of the insurance bonds will be given to the farmers by 15 September.
Rythu Bandhu Life Insurance Bonds Scheme is continuous as eligible farmers will be added from time to time. Moreover, all those beneficiaries who become ineligible after attaining the age of 60 years will be removed from the list of beneficiaries.
Telangana 5 Lakh Life Insurance Farmers

Tenant farmers are consistently demanding to add their names in the list of beneficiaries. But the tenant farmers are not included in this Life Insurance Scheme as well as in Rythu Bandhu Scheme. Such farmers are left out because it is very difficult to identify tenant farmers and that they have no rights over the lands.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Earlier, the state govt. had distributed cheques of Rs. 4,000 under Rythu Bandhu programme. This scheme benefited around 5.8 million (58 lakh) land holding farmers and provides assistance to bear farming costs such as purchase of fertilizers and seeds.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Telangana govt. is going to launch 100% Input Subsidy Scheme for Backward Classes from August 2018. Under this scheme, govt. will provide investment support of upto Rs. 1 lakh to attract backward castes. These includes especially small businessmen and those in hereditary professions. For this, govt. has already given Rs. 500 crore to the BC Welfare Corporation.
100 per cent Input Subsidy Scheme for Backward Classes in Telangana will benefit over 100 castes who are poor, economically weaker and requires financial assistance. Particularly barbers, blacksmiths, goldsmiths, potters, masons, small traders like vegetable vendors and flower businessmen will get benefited.
The state govt. is committed towards the welfare of people from Backward Community. This is an investment support scheme for small businessmen to purchase tools and equipment. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana 100% Input Subsidy Scheme for Backward Castes (BC)
The highlights and important features of this investment support scheme are as follows:-

Telangana govt. has announced a scheme where each BC beneficiary will get 100% input subsidy up to Rs 1 lakh.
The new scheme is for poor people of around 100 castes in BCs who requires investment support.
Barbers, Blacksmiths, Goldsmiths, Potters, Masons, and other small traders from BC community like vegetable vendors and flower businessmen will benefit.
In the first phase, there would be no bank linkage.
Financial assistance will be given to all those people who are in their hereditary professions and small trades from backward castes (BC Category).
These people indulged in hereditary business can purchase tools with this input subsidy.
For the major castes in BCs, the state govt. has been already implementing schemes like sheep rearing for Yadavas and Gollas, washing machines for the washermen caste and schemes for fishermen.

Previously, govt. has launched a similar Input Subsidy Scheme to provide investment support to farmers named as Rythu Bandhu Scheme. First phase of Rythu Bandhu Scheme is already ongoing and second phase is expected to be implemented from October 2018.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana 100% Input Subsidy Scheme – Investment Support Implementation
Govt. will identify all the beneficiaries at the village level. Govt. will form committees in every district with collector as chairman, BC welfare officer as convenor and joint collector as members. After preparing the List of beneficiaries, govt. will provide financial assistance to all such beneficiaries.
All the people in the Beneficiary List must possess a valid Bank Account as this assistance amount will be transferred directly to their bank accounts. Govt. will provide funds allocated to the BC welfare department and MBC Corporation for this purpose.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

Buffalo Distribution Scheme in Telangana – Subsidy & CostEligibility & Application FormsOther Decisions
Telangana Govt. has approved the launch of a new Buffalo Distribution Scheme for Dairy Farmers who produces and sell milk. Under this scheme, the state govt. will provide 50% subsidy on the purchase of new buffaloes. The total number of Cattles to be distributed is 2 lakh with a total outlay of Rs. 800 crore.
Now farmers can purchase one buffalo by paying a minimal price of Rs. 40,000. The state govt. will bear the rest amount. This major initiative is after the successful implementation of Rs. 5000 crore Sheep Distribution Scheme. 
This scheme will boost the farmer’s income who are into the business of milk production. Govt. will soon finalize the implementation guidelines.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Buffalo Distribution Scheme in Telangana – Subsidy & Cost
Here we are giving you the details of the government subsidy and total cost for the purchase of new buffaloes under this scheme:-

Subsidy & Number of Buffaloes – CM K Chandrashekhar Rao has now given approval to the new Rs. 800 crore plan of distributing 2 lakh buffaloes to farmers at 50% subsidy.
Effective Cost of Cattle After Subsidy – The cost of purchasing a new buffalo is around Rs. 80,000. Out of this total amount, govt. will pay Rs. 40,000 for each buffalo (50% subsidy). So, Farmers will only have to pay Rs. 40,000 for the purchase of new buffaloes.

This Cattle Distribution scheme will benefit around 2 lakh families of the farmers who produces and sells milk for their income. This is a first of its kind initiative in the country.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Eligibility & Application Forms
The state govt. will invite online applications for this new Buffalo Distribution Scheme. The modalities are not yet finalized yet but govt. will soon reveal the eligibility criteria and the complete procedure on How to Apply Online for Cattle Distribution Scheme.
This scheme will empower farmers, generate an additional source of income for farmers, increase in farmers income, boost milk production and to provide happiness to the farmers.
Other Decisions

The state govt. has released Rs. 50 crore for providing Rs. 4 incentive on every litre of milk supplied by farmers to govt. diaries. This includes Vijaya Dairy in Lalapet and other 3 diaries. For this purpose, govt. spends Rs. 100 crore every year.
Telangana govt. will establish a new market yard in 200 acres on the outskirts of city which will also promote meat export.
Govt. will supply 80 crore fish seed absolutely free to revive 46,000 lakes, water bodies and ponds under Mission Kakatiya.
The state govt. will distribute 50,000 two-wheelers, 2000 three-wheelers and other materials at 75% subsidy to fishermen to sell fish.
For better health care services to cattle, govt. will provide 100 additional mobile vans to the existing 100 vans & will also develop 2,132 veterinary hospitals.

Central govt. has now made an announcement to provide an award to Telangana State under Gopala Mitra Scheme.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Telangana govt. is planning to launch a New LIC Insurance Scheme to benefit farmers. Under this scheme, govt. will provide an insurance amount of Rs. 5 lakh on the death of the farmer. The state govt. has announced that life insurance scheme will get launched on 2 June 2018. This scheme will be a Group Insurance Scheme and is applicable for all small, marginal and big farmers. 
The state govt. is holding detailed discussions on Insurance Scheme including Central Government scheme to pay farmer’s share / premium amount. This scheme will be absolutely free of cost for the farmers.
Latest Update – Telangana govt. has launched Rythu Bandhu Life Insurance Bonds Scheme (Rs. 5 Lakh) for Farmers.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Govt. is consistently discussing with Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) officers to finalize modalities of scheme.
LIC Life Insurance Scheme for Farmers in Telangana
Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) is already running various schemes for the people across India. These schemes includes LIC’s Jeevan Utkarsh, Jeevan Pragati, Jeevan Labh, Jeevan Anand, Jeevan Rakshak, Jeevan Umang, Anmol Jeevan, Bima Shree and other Term insurance, Money back and Endowment Schemes. So, the state govt. of Telangana wants to start a new Insurance Scheme for all farmers including small, marginal farmers. The important features and highlights of this new LIC Insurance Scheme in Telangana are as follows:- 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


In case of death of the farmers, state govt. will provide an insurance amount of Rs. 5,00,000 to the family of farmers.
Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) will implement this insurance scheme.
The state govt. will pay the premium on behalf of the farmers.
Govt. will allocate a budgetary provision for this insurance scheme of farmers. This would be a Group Insurance Scheme.
This amount will be an assured amount and will be paid directly into the bank account of the farmers.

Last Week, Telangana govt. has also launched Rythu Bandhu – Farmers Investment Support Scheme (FISS) for farmers. Under this scheme, the state govt. will provide an crop investment support of Rs. 8,000 per acre (for 2 crops) in an year to boost the agricultural production. 
In addition to this, the state govt. has also launched Pattadar Passbook initiative to end land disputes of farmers. This scheme was started with a budgetary allocation of Rs. 12,000 crore to benefit 58 lakh farmers in the state.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao government’s Double Bedroom Housing Scheme to be ready by March 2020. Telangana housing dept. announces that the two BHK dream housing project will soon come into realization as desired by CM KCR. 2 BHK Housing scheme is a flagship scheme of Telangana government to provide affordable 2BHK houses to eligible beneficiaries in the state.
Telangana govt. flagship programme of 2BHK housing scheme at Kollur in the city outskirts would be completed by March 2020. There are around 15,660 double bedroom flats which are being built in 125 acres of land. 
Nearly one lakh people will reside at this place after the completion of Double Bedroom (2 BHK) Housing Scheme project. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana Double Bedroom (2BHK) Housing Scheme 2019-2020
Each house to be constructed under the Double Bedroom (2 BHK) Housing Scheme consists of two bedrooms, a hall, a kitchen and two toilets. The total built up area of each house is 560 sq.ft. and the cost of housing per each Dwelling Unit (DU) is Rs. 7.90 lakh. The cost of infrastructure per dwelling unit is Rs. 75,000. 
This is one of the biggest and most prestigious housing projects which would be taken up in Asia. These houses under 2 BHK housing scheme will provide all amenities and infrastructure like water, power, drainage, roads, shopping malls. In addition to this, parks, nursing homes, school, library, police out-post, fire station, bus station and parking facility in each block would be present.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The pattern of the housing units being constructed are in G+1 to G+9 pattern on the basis of land type at site of construction. The total project cost including housing plus infrastructure is around Rs 1,354.59 crore.
Also Read – How to Apply Online for Telangana 2 BHK Housing Scheme 
Chitra Ramachandran who is the Additional Chief Secretary for Housing in Telangana Housing Department has inspected the progress of Double Bedroom Housing Scheme. This 2BHK housing scheme is dream project which would come into realization as desired by the CM KCR. All the people belonging to below poverty line (BPL) category would be the beneficiaries of 2 BHK housing scheme.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/telangana/2019/jul/21/cm-kcr-governments-two-bhk-housing-scheme-will-be-ready-by-march-2020-in-telangana-2007115.html
SAVE AS PDF

Telangana govt. has launched Rythu Bandhu Scheme between Salapalli-Indiranagar in Huzurabad constituency of Karimnagar district. Under this Farmers Investment Support Scheme (FISS), govt. will provide financial assistance of Rs. 8000 per year (two crops) to each farmer. This input assistance scheme will benefit 58 lakh farmers covering around 1.42 crore acres of farming land. 
The primary objective of this scheme is to maximize agricultural production and productivity. For the benefit of farmers, govt. has also started Pattadar Passbook Initiative. All the farmers will now get new Pattadar Passbook as one single proof of ownership.
Latest Update – Telangana govt. has launched Rythu Bandhu Life Insurance Bonds Scheme (Rs. 5 Lakh) for Farmers. This would be a group insurance and will be implemented by Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India. Under this scheme, govt. will provide Rs. 5 lakh on the death of the farmer – View Details



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state govt. has made a budgetary allocation of Rs. 12,000 crore for this Farmers Investment Support Scheme in Telangana Budget 2018-19. This scheme was earlier named as “Rythu Lakshmi”. This scheme will lead to empowerment of farmers.
Rythu Bandhu Scheme 2018
All the small and marginal farmers / SC-ST farmers / Record of Forest Rights (ROFR) Pattadars will get financial assistance twice every year directly without the involvement of a middlemen. FISS does not specifies any upper limit on the land holdings as 97% of the total farmers have less than 10 acres of land holdings. The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Rythu Bandhu is a transparent per acre investment support scheme for farmers.
Telangana govt. will provide Rs. 8000 per acre to be paid annually in 2 equal pay order cheques of Rs. 4000 per crop season.
Out of the total 71.75 lakh farmers in the state, around 58 lakh farmers will get benefited from this scheme. Tenant farmers are excluded from this input assistance scheme.
Telangana govt. has made a provision of Rs. 12000 crore exclusively for Rythu Bandhu Investment Support Scheme.
This scheme will cover 1.42 crore acres of farming land as ownership of this land is clearly established and recorded.
Rythu Samanvaya Samiti will give this assistance to the farmers through a bank bearer cheque. Agriculture Extension Officers (AEOs) will consistently monitor the Rythu Bandhu cheques distribution at rural / village level. These AEOs also holds the responsibility to make entry of cheque details on tablet computer provided.
Rythu Bandhu Investment Support Scheme

Each Farmer will receive a tamper proof “Pattadar Passbook” with 17 unique security features. this passbook will now serve as proof for an absolute ownership.
New Pattadar Passbook Initiative – Dharani
The state govt. is going to provide “New Pattadar Passbooks” to the farmers along with the cheques. This is a historical land cleansing drive in which 1523 revenue teams have approached farmers directly to verify their land records once and for all. The important features and highlights of this Pattadar Passbook drive are as follows:-

This initiative will end all land disputes of the farmers.
Telangana govt. has completed the entire process in just 100 days on a fast tack basis (15 September 2017 to 31 December 2017).
This entire passbook preparation process was carried out in 3 stages and every information was made available in respective Gram Panchayats (GPs).
The state govt. has contacted each and every farmer to verify their rightful ownership. The state govt. has examined all the objections and made the necessary modifications.
Now all the records are saved in the digital format at Dharani Website. These records will now get treated as single evidence in all land record matters.

These 2 initiatives will redefine the future of agriculture in the state as well as across the entire country. Both these initiatives are first-of-their-kind never seen initiative for farmers welfare. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Central government has now launched its flagship Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) in Telangana on 14 April 2018. Under this scheme, govt. will now provide Free LPG Gas Connection to all the below poverty line (BPL) families in the state. PMUY in Telangana LPG Scheme will provide free gas connections to around 20 lakh families. 
Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan has announced the launch of PMUY Scheme and has participated in the official launch event. This event was held at SV Degree College Grounds, Suryapet where 1000 connections will be provided to the beneficiaries marking PMUY launch in the state. Due to existing deepam scheme, the number of beneficiaries in Telangana are less.
Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) in its 2nd phase will cover all the SC / ST households along with other beneficiaries. This scheme will benefit the women belonging to poor and deprived sections of the society. PMUY will emphasize on reducing usage of firewood and traditional Biomass fuels that have the potential to cause respiratory diseases. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) in Telangana
Central govt. has launched PMUY Scheme in the state to cover all the bpl households and to provide smoke free environment to kids and women. In the first year, 3 oil marketing companies – IOC, BPCL and HPCL targets to issue 2-3 lakh new free gas connections. All the beneficiaries will get stove, regulator and 6 LPG Gas Cylinders free of cost. For this, Central govt. has sanctioned 707 distribution points in Telangana. 
There are approx. 94.36 lakh domestic gas connections in Telangana. Most of the people in the state already possess LPG connections under the existing Deepam Scheme. Still around 20 lakh people does not have any gas connection, so the central govt. will launch this scheme. This scheme will benefit mostly rural households as only 60% to 70% poor families posses gas connections.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

PMUY in Telangana will also possess the EMI option which companies offers to their beneficiaries to get stove and first refill. All the PMUY beneficiaries will get an option to pay their EMI directly through their LPG subsidy amount in their bank accounts. First EMI / Installment will start from supply of 7th refill.
Revised Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY)
PMUY Scheme was launched on 1 May 2016 from Ballia, Uttar Pradesh. Under this scheme, govt. had decided to provided free lpg gas connections to 5 crore families. The total allocation for 3 years (2016,17,18) was Rs. 8000 crore. Till date, central govt. has already provided these free LPG connections to around 3.54 crore families. Identification of families is done done as per the SECC 2011 Data – All India Final BPL List.
As per the revised guidelines, the target is now raised to provide free gas connections to 8 crore beneficiaries till FY 2020. PMUY LPG Gas Connection Scheme will now include all SC/ST households, PMAY G beneficiaries and Antyodaya Anna Yojana – AAY beneficiaries, forest dwellers, most-backward classes, tea / ex-tea garden tribes along with people living in islands and rivers. For this scheme, central govt. has allocated an additional Rs. 4800 crore. 
Under PMUY, central govt. gives Rs. 1600 per connection as financial assistance. This amount is given to OMCs for security deposit of 14.2 kg cylinder, pressure regulator and installation / demonstration charges (payable to distributors) along with cost of Domestic Gas Consumer Card booklet / Blue Book.
Free LPG Gas Connections are issued in the name of women belonging to BPL families. As a security constraint, only the bpl women households with ‘pucca’ ghar can only avail this scheme to ensure their safety. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

Shaadi Mubarak Scheme / Kalyana Laxmi Scheme Application Form DownloadShaadi Mubarak Scheme In Telangana State – Kalyana Laxmi EligibilityDocuments Required For Shaadi Mubarak SchemeKalyana Laxmi Scheme Status
Telangana govt. has increased the marriage assistance to Rs. 1 lakh under Shaadi Mubarak Scheme In Telangana State. Kalyana Lakshmi Pathakam / Kalyana Laxmi Scheme is a welfare scheme for wedding of SC, ST, Minorities (BC-A / BC-B / BC-D) and economically backward classes (EBC – listed / other) girls. Interested girls can see Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme Details, do Kalyana Laxmi Scheme Application Form Download or fill it through telanganaepass.cgg.gov.in
KCR has increased the previous support amount of Rs. 51,000 to Rs. 1,00,000 to bear marriage expenses of girls who have attained the age of 18 years. To avail Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme Amount, girls must follow the eligibility criteria. Kalyana Laxmi Eligibility includes that the annual income of the parents must not exceed Rs. 2,00,000 per annum. 
All the brides who wishes to avail the benefits can fill the Telangana Shadi Mubarak Application through the official website of telangana epass. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Shaadi Mubarak Scheme / Kalyana Laxmi Scheme Application Form Download
Below is the complete procedure to apply online for shaadi mubarak scheme in telangana state:-

Firstly visit the official website telanganaepass.cgg.gov.in
On the homepage, click the “Kalyana Lakshmi” Photo or directly click this link
Afterwards, click the “Register – Click Here” link under ‘Kalyana Lakshmi Pathakam Services’ section.
Then Telangana Shadi Mubarak Application Form will appear as shown below:-
Telangana Shadi Mubarak Application Form
Fill all the details, upload documents and click the “Submit” button.
Finally take a printout of the completed application form to avail the Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme Amount.

Direct Link – Candidates can directly click Telangana State Shadi Mubarak Registration Form to make registration on Telangana epass website.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Shaadi Mubarak Scheme In Telangana State – Kalyana Laxmi Eligibility
To fill the application form and to avail the Kalyana Lakshmi Pathakam Amount, firstly see the kalyana laxmi eligibility. See complete Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme Details:-

The girl candidate must be a permanent resident of Telangana State.
Even the girls must belong to SC / ST / Minorities / Backward classes to avail kalyana lakshmi scheme amount of Rs. 1 lakh.
Girl must have attained the age of 18 years.
The annual income of the parents of bride from all sources must not exceed Rs. 2 lakh to apply for Shaadi Mubarak Scheme 2018.

Documents Required For Shaadi Mubarak Scheme
All the candidates must upload the following shaadi mubarak scheme documents to avail kalyana lakshmi scheme amount and also see list of documents in Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme Details:-


Shaadi Mubarak Scheme Documents


1st Marriage Confirmation Certificate
VPO / Panchayat Secretary Approval Certificate


Recent Photograph of Bride
Age Proof


Bride Aadhaar Card (Scanned Copy)
Bridegroom Aadhaar Card (Scanned Copy)


Bride’s Mother’s Bank Passbook
Bank passbook of bride


In addition to the above Kalyana Laxmi Scheme documents, candidates must also be asked to produce Wedding Card, Caste Certificate, Income Certificate and SSC documents.
Kalyana Laxmi Scheme Status
Candidates can print their application form and can also check the Shaadi Mubarak Scheme Status through the link given below:-
Shaadi Mubarak Scheme Application Status
Furthermore, candidates can see the complete Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme Details to fill the application form and upload documents.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Telangana govt. has announced KCR Mega Health Cum Life Insurance Scheme for Ryots. Subsequently, the state govt. will provide an insurance cover of Rs. 5 lakh p.a for health-care and hospitalization and even in the case of death. Accordingly, KCR govt. is going to allocate Rs. 500 crore in Telnagana Budget 2018-19 for successful implementation of this health-cum-life insurance scheme. Moreover, this scheme will benefit around 70 lakh small and marginal farmers in the state.
Under Mega Health Cum Life Insurance Scheme, govt. will provide the insurance amount to the families of farmers in case of accidental death or death due to any natural cause. Henceforth, farmers will not have to pay any premium for this insurance coverage. Telangana state govt. will bear the entire premium amount for the benefit of farmers.
Latest Update – Telangana govt. is going to launch LIC New Insurance Scheme for Farmers to provide Rs. 5 lakh on the death of farmers – View Details



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

KCR announced this pro-farmer initiative in response to a farmer seeking insurance in Regional Conference of Mandal Level Farmers Coordination Committee. This Regional Rythu Samanvaya Committees awareness meeting event held at Ambedkar Stadium on 26 February 2018.
Telangana Mega Health Cum Life Insurance Scheme – Application Forms
Similar to other schemes, farmers have to fill the application forms to avail the benefits of this Mega Health Cum Life Insurance Scheme. Accordingly, KCR govt. will soon send the insurance application forms to the villages. Henceforth, FCC members will ensure that each and every farmer in rural areas fills this Insurance Form.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

FCC members are given the responsibility to provide insurance facilities to all ryots. Moreover, for the welfare of farmers, govt. is also going to start Input Assistance Scheme / Farmers Investment Support Scheme (FISS) to provide financial assistance of Rs. 4000 per acre for Yasangi and Kharif crops. 
Moreover, FISS Scheme is not for tenant farmers as the rules of Tenant Act are very strict. As per the rules in Tenant Act, tenant farmers are not actual farmers rather other farmers cultivate their land. Accordingly, around 97% of farmers in the state cultivates their land on their own instead of giving it on rent to other. 
Moreover, all types of orchards and non-tribal cultivating land are eligible for financial assistance under FISS Scheme. Henceforth, FISS scheme will protect the interest of land owners with total outlay of Rs. 12000 crore.
Minimum Support Price – MSP Issue of Farmers
CM KCR also responded on the question of Minimum Support Price (MSP) of the farmers. Central govt. has the authority to fix and announce the MSP of crops. Telangana govt. is making every possible effort to increase the MSP and is also raising this issue in the parliament. 
Telangana govt. seeks Rs. 2200 MSP for Paddy and also urges the Central govt. to enhance the MSP of Wheat. Furthermore, the state govt. will launch an agitation in support of farmers if Central govt. does not take any positive decision on MSP.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Telangana govt. is going to distribute new and free passbook to the farmers on 11 March 2018. Subsequently, the state govt. will provide these passbooks which will consists of all the details of land records of Telangana farmers. In addition, govt. will introduce a transparent and effective ‘Land and Reforms based Registration Policy’. The state govt. will operate this process online like Core Banking System on website – Dharani. 
KCR declares that the passbook distribution programme will be graced either by Mr. Ram Nath Kovind, Indian President or Mr. Narendra Modi, Indian PM. Moreover, govt. will also introduce an Input Assistance (Subsidy) Scheme.
Latest Update – Rythu Bandhu Scheme and New Pattadar Passbook Initiative launched in Karimnagar district – See details



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana govt. will upload all the necessary details of land on the website to eradicate corruption. For this reason, govt. is going to introduce new land reforms. 
Free Passbooks to Telangana Farmers
The important features and highlights of this programme are as follows:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Telangana govt. is going to implement this programme as a model. This new passbook will contain all details of land records which are present with the govt. agencies.
Subsequently, govt. will put all the information on an official website – Dharani. Thus, the state govt. will implement this process just like a Core Banking System.
Govt. will update all the land transactions on this website on a daily basis. People can also use this information for sale and purchase of land. For this reason, govt. has created an IT wing to update this info.
Revenue department will take over the process of land administration and records maintenance.
This will bring a new transparent and corruption free “Land and Reforms Based Registration Policy”.
On 11 March 2018, govt. will implement an Input Subsidy Scheme and also distribute new passbooks to Telangana Farmers.
KCR also announced that all the farmers can avail this registration facility at each Mandal Office.
Furthermore for eliminating corruption, govt. will introduce new reforms – put an end to fake documents for Registration, Sale and Purchase of lands. In addition to this, process of Land Records Maintenance will also get introduced.

This will ease down the process for farmers and other people. Now, people don’t have to make unnecessary visits to the govt. offices. They shall come to the registration office only once which will further eradicate corruption. Accordingly, govt. will strengthen land records maintenance and other reforms through the official website Dharani which will record each transaction.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Telangana Government is going to launch an Input Assistance Scheme for the Ryots / Farmers Investment Support Scheme (FISS). Subsequently, all the farmers will get financial assistance of Rs. 4,000 per acre each for Yasangi and Kharif Crops under this Rythu Bandhu Scheme. Accordingly this scheme will enable the peasants or the land cultivators to purchase farm inputs independent of the moneylenders. This Farmers Investment Support Scheme (FISS) is a continuous scheme and the state govt. will spend Rs. 12000 crore for this scheme. 
The state govt. will start Rythu Bandhu Scheme from the upcoming Kharif Season. Moreover, this scheme will also include the coverage of horticultural crops. Telangana govt. is going to implement this scheme on a pilot basis initially in 2 or 3 villages which will ensure easy transfer of input assistance. 
Latest Update – Rythu Bandhu Scheme 2018 has been launched in the Karimnagar District – See details



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana govt. will launch Rythu Bandhu Scheme / Farmers Investment Support Scheme (FISS) to benefit around 71 lakh farmers of the state. Under this Agricultural Investment Support Scheme, govt. will distribute Rs. 6000 crore as an investment support for ryots for their Kharif crops from 1 May 2018 to 10 May 2018. Rest Rs. 6000 crore will be given to the ryots for rabi crops in the month of November.
Rythu Bandhu / Farmers Investment Support Scheme Roll Out – Rythu Bandhu scheme will get rolled out in the following manner:-
Input Assistance Scheme Ryots Farmers Investment Support Scheme Telangana


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Input Assistance Scheme for Ryots / Rythu Bandhu / Farmers Investment Support Scheme (FISS)
The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-

This scheme is going to benefit Ryots / Peasant Cultivators of Telangana.
Subsequently, the input assistance to the farmers is fixed at Rs. 4000 per acre for Yasangi and Kharif Crops..
Accordingly, the farmers will get money for the purchase of farm inputs to increase their cultivation.
This scheme will raise the growth rate of the farm sector of the state.
For its successful implementation, govt. will implement this scheme on a pilot basis in some villages.
Telangana govt. is going to shortlist the villages in the next week. Initially, the govt. will select these villages from Medak, Mahabubnagar, Nalgonda and Nizamabad districts.
Furthermore, the state govt. will spend around Rs. 8000 to Rs. 12000 crore for the successful implementation of Farmers Investment Support Scheme.

Telangana govt. is implementing this scheme on a pilot basis to address the issues of bank accounts of farmers. Accordingly, the state govt. is going to prepare a flawless system to provide the necessary financial assistance to the farmers. Under this scheme, the mode of payments is not yet finalized. However, the state govt. is planing to introduce online transfer mechanism which will make use of ATM Cards, Rupay Cards, Demand Draft or cheques in the name of farmers. 
Implementation of Input Assistance Scheme / Rythu Bandhu
Telangana govt. has made its preparations to successfully implement this Farmers Investment Support Scheme (FISS). However, the main concern is to ensure transparency in the transfer of assistance amount to the farmers.
This scheme is a continuous scheme which will involve huge money transfer. Accordingly, govt. would require a proper transfer mechanism in order to make this scheme successful. This pilot run will get completed in around 1 month time. 





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Telangana state govt. has launched the Christmas Gift Scheme 2017 for the poor people. Under this scheme, govt. is going to distribute gifts to around 2 lakh Christians from the poor and economically backward sections of the society. Accordingly, the state govt. will provide clothes and also host Christmas dinners for the people from impoverished background. The state govt. starts this scheme in the year 2015 and now the state govt. is carrying forward this initiative.
The state govt. will provide sarees or cloth pieces to the beneficiaries. The beneficiary can stitch the given cloth pieces into a pair of shirt and pant or salwar kameez. Telangana govt. will distribute gift hampers to the poor people on 14 December 2017 and also organize dinner on 18 December 2017. The state govt. will spend Rs 15 crore for successful implementation of this scheme.
Details of Christmas Gift Scheme 2017
The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


This scheme is launched to provide Christmas Gifts which includes clothes and dinner to the weaker sections of the Telangana state.
Under this scheme, the state will ensure that the distributed clothes are of high quality.
As per the collected data, there are around 1 lakh Christians in Hyderabad and Secunderabad city and 1 lakh in rest of the state. So this scheme will benefit around 2 lakh Christians belonging to the weaker sections.
Subsequently, MLAs and Corporates along with the Christian Organizations are given the responsibility to identify beneficiaries.
After the identification of beneficiaries, govt. will transfer the specified amount directly to the account of the church. These churches will hand over the gift hampers and organize the dinner facility.
Accordingly, the state govt. has identified 190 churches to avail the benefits of this scheme.
The state govt. firstly launches this scheme in December 2015 and is now going to continue this scheme.
Furthermore, CM will also host a grand dinner party for some best Christian families in Hyderabad on the Christmas eve.

In addition to this, Deputy CM also laid the foundation of Christian Bhavan at Medchal situated at the city suburbs on 4 December 2017.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

 




(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

The state government of Telangana is providing Mee Seva Health Card to all its employees. The objective of this card is to provide cashless treatment to State Government employees including the State Government pensioners along with their dependent family members. The services of Mee Seva Health Card will be provided through a network of empaneled hospitals of Aarogyasri Health Care Trust. 
The Aarogyasri Health Care Trust is implementing Mee Seva Health Card scheme under the supervision of State Government. This scheme will cover all the serving and retired employees of the state. Under the Health Card scheme, the government will provide a card or the card number in case the card is unavailable. The state government will collect a nominal fee of Rs. 120 from Gazette officers while Rs. 90 from non – gazette officers.
Under the scheme, the state government is providing cashless medical facilities to all employees who are 40 years or above. The beneficiary will get the healthcare card within the six months after completing the document formalities. Moreover, if both husband and wife are working in government jobs, then both are eligible to apply for health cards scheme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Mee Seva Health Card Application Form
Below given the procedure to apply for the Mee Seva Card:-

Visit the official website at tg.meeseva.gov.in.
Now click the “Mee Seva Service Forms” under ‘Quick Links’ section or directly click on this link.
Next window will open, here click the “Aarogyasri” tab and then click “MeeSeva Application Employees”.
Afterward, the Health Card Application Form for Employees will appear on the screen.
Below given the screenshot of the application form.
Mee Seva Health Card Application Form
The candidate can download the Health Card Application Form for Employees with the guidelines in PDF format. Below given the link.
Health Card Application Form for Employees
In addition, the candidates can also download the Health Card Application Form for Pensioners with the guidelines in PDF format. Below given the link.
Health Card Application Form for Pensioners 
After downloading the application form, candidates have to fill this application form for availing the scheme.
After completing the format, visit the Meeseva centre to submit the application form along with the required documents.
After reaching the Mee Seva Center, candidates have to submit the application form with the fee charges.
Afterwards, candidates will get an acknowledgement slip which acts a proof of submitting the application form.

Under Employee Health Scheme, the government employees and their dependent family members can avail Rs. 2 lakhs per treatment. However, there would be no limit to the number of treatment. In addition, If the hospital charge is exceeded Rs. 2 lakhs then the treatment will continue. But the exceeded amount will be settled by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Aarogyasri Healthcare trust. The beneficiary of treatment package will also get the consultation with the doctor till 10 days after the discharge from the hospital.
Mee Seva Health Card Document Required
Below given the screenshot of the list of the required documents which would be necessary at the time submitting the application form in the Mee seva centre.
Mee Seva Health Card Document List


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The candidate has to visit the Mee Seva centre with the above documents. The candidate can also check the details of the nearest center clicking on the below link. 
Mee Seva Authorized Centers
Detailed information about eligibility criteria and required documents is available at this link.
Mee Seva Health Card Application Status
Furthermore, the applicant can check the application status by going to the official website tg.meeseva.gov.in. Here applicant has to click of “Know your application status” where the applicant can enter the application number and check the Application status.
The candidates can also call at the helpline number – 1100 or can contact the department officers at the contact details mentioned at below link.
Contact Details





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

The state government of Telangana has launched Handloom Weavers Loan Waiver Scheme to give a boost to the handloom sector. Under the scheme, the government will pay the loans of weavers so that they can become debt-free. The beneficiary will get the loan waiver of up to Rs. 1 Lakh. This handloom weaver loan waiver scheme will cover about 2,467 handloom weavers across the state.
This Handloom Weavers Loan Waiver Scheme will cover the loans taken by the weavers from any Nationalized bank or District Cooperative Central Banks (DCCBs). This scheme will waive off only the loans that were taken between 1 June 2014 and 31 March 2017. However, the weavers who have taken loans of above Rs. 1 lakh will also be eligible for the scheme but the government will pay maximum Rs. 1 Lakh which would be directly transferred to the loan account of the beneficiary.
However, the government has informed that about 205 weavers (out of 2,467) who have paid their loans balance, will also be eligible to get Rs. 1 lakh under Handloom Weavers Loan Waiver Scheme. Such handloom weavers also faced several problems to make repay the amount of loan.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Handloom Weavers Loan Waiver Scheme Telangana
The state govt. will spend Rs. 10.10 crore to protect handloom weavers from debt-trap and the remaining amount of Rs. 5.65 crore will be spend for 1,018 powerloom weavers. The aim of the scheme is to ensure sustainable employment and welfare of weavers. The government will also provide marketing facilities to increase brand promotion of products.
Moreover, the state government has extended the benefits of the Cooperative Thrift Fund Scheme to weavers both within the cooperative sector and outside including the ancillary workers like winders, designers and dyers.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Moreover, this loan waiver scheme will resolve the problems of insufficient raw material supply, tough competition, insufficient marketing facilities etc. The government will also provide adequate budgetary support to the Handloom Sector. This scheme will also help the weavers to increase their livelihood earnings in the handloom sector.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

The state government of Telangana has announced 24×7 power supply to the agriculture sector across the state from March, 2018. The TRS government has started to provide 24×7 power to agriculture sector on experimental basis from 6th November 2017. However, the government has set a deadline to provide 24×7 power to all households, industry, commercial business, public needs etc. by 2018-19.
Under the 24×7 power supply experiment, the state government would provide power to agriculture sector for 5 or 6 days a week. The government will then study the pros and cons of the implementation to come up with better and effective solution. If everything goes right, the experiment would be converted into full fledged implementation for permanent 24×7 power to agriculture sector from March 2018.
Telangana state is among the highest power consumption States all over India. As per data of electricity department, per capita power consumption of the state is over 985 units against the national average of 917 units. The government will invest Rs. 1600 crore to strengthen the electricity transmission and distribution network in the state.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana government has promised that they will ensure 24 hour power supply to all section of the state including 24 hours supply to rural section by 2017-18 against 15 hours supply. Govt. also promised to provide 9 hours power supply to agriculture during day time against 7 hours.
According to the official data, there are 44,532 urban and 721,588 rural households to be electrified in the state. The power department has planned to complete the electrification of all households by the end of 2017-18. The present demand of power is expected to be in the range of 13,500 MW to 14,000 MW. This demand can provide uninterrupted supply of power to agriculture pump sets in the State.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The government has informed that this year demand of state was 8,300 MW against 6,890 MW last year. Therefore, Telangana State Power Generation Corporation Limited (TSGENCO) is planning for investments of Rs. 42,491 Crore to set up more thermal power station to meet the increasing demand of the state by 2018-19. 
The government has informed that they bear the cost for supply of 24×7 power in the form of subsidy. Moreover, several projects are already working in the state to capacity addition. Govt. informed that, the 800 MW seventh unit of KTPS is being expected to be completed in December this year.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

Telangana Aasara Pension Amount Doubled for All CategoriesTelangana Aasara Pensions Scheme Exclusion ListTelangana Aasara Pension Yojana 2019
Telangana government has doubled the pension amount for all beneficiaries under Aasara Pensions Scheme. While the pension amount of Rs. 1,000 has been raised to Rs. 2,016 for all categories, pension amount of Rs 1,500 given to differently-abled persons has been increased to Rs 3,016. The decision of doubling Telangana Aasara Pension Amount would be applicable from June 2019 and beneficiaries will start getting new pension amount from July 2019.
As a pre poll promise, CM K Chandrashekhar Rao had promised to double the pension amounts to beneficiaries. Moreover, he also announced to revise the age limit for old-age pensioners from 65 years to 57 years. 
Subsequently, the state govt. has released orders to raise pension amounts. Moreover, it is expected that separate orders for revising age limit would be issued soon.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana Aasara Pension Amount Doubled for All Categories
Beneficiaries under the categories of old-age, widow, weavers, toddy tappers, persons with HIV-AIDS, beedi workers, single women, self employed artisans, hawkers, vendors engaged on petty business and filaria patients who are getting monthly pension of Rs 1,000 will now receive Rs 2,016 per month. Similarly, differently-abled persons who are getting Rs. 1,500 per month will get a hiked pension of Rs 3,016 from July onward. CM KCR of Telangana has doubled Aasara pension amount for all category of beneficiaries. 
Currently, around 39,32,302 persons are getting benefitted under the Aasara pension scheme in Telangana. Due to revised age limit for old-age pensioners and higher pensions amount under Aasara Pensions, the number of beneficiaries is likely to increase by another 7 lakh. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state govt. is likely to bear a financial burden of Rs. 12,000 crore. For this purpose, Telangana govt. has already made an allocation of Rs. 12,607 crore in its budget during February 2019.
Telangana Aasara Pension Amount Doubled
Telangana Aasara Pensions Scheme Exclusion List
The persons belonging to the households fulfilling 1 or more of the following condition’s listed below shall not be eligible for Social Security Pensions (Aasara Pensions Scheme) in Telangana:-

Having land more than 3.0 acres wet / irrigated dry or 7.5 acres dry.
Having children who are Government / Public sector / Private sector employment / Out-sourced / contract.
People having children who are doctors, contractors, professionals and self employed.
Having large business enterprise (oil mills, rice mills, pumps, rig owners, shop owners etc.)
People who are already receiving Government pensions or freedom fighter pensions.
Owners of light and/or heavy automobiles (four wheelers and big vehicles).
Any other criterion in which the verification officer may assess by the manner of lifestyle, occupation and possession of assets rendering the household as ineligible.
Annual household income is more than Rs. 1.50 lakhs in rural areas and Rs. 2 lakhs in urban areas.

Telangana Aasara Pension Yojana 2019
— Government Order 17 for Aasara Pensions Implementation – Telangana Aasara Pensions Scheme Compressed
— Government Order 23 for Aasara Pension Amendment – Telangana Aasara Pension Yojana Amendment
— For complete details, visit the official website at aasara.telangana.gov.in





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: aasara.telangana.gov.in, https://telanganatoday.com/telangana-aasara-pensions-doubled
SAVE AS PDF

The state government of Telangana has announced to provide subsidy for those farmers who are buying buffaloes in the state. As per the notification, the government is planning to frame a comprehensive scheme for the development of dairy sector to start a milk revolution (Ksheera Viplavam) across the state.
According to the notification, government will provide 50 per cent subsidy to the farmer from general categories while SC/ST community farmers will get 75 per cent subsidy for buying a buffalo. The scheme would be implemented through several dairy development societies.
Dairy Development Societies
Below is the list of dairy societies will get top priority under the scheme



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


Vijaya Dairy Development Society
Mulkanur Dairy Development Society
Nalgonda and Rangareddy Districts Dairy Development Societies 
Karimnagar Dairy Development Societies 

State government has also accepted the demand of other dairy farmers to provide Rs. 4 per liter as incentive. Earlier, the demand of incentive was accepted only in the case of Vijaya dairy development society. The accepted demand of incentive of Rs. 4 per liter will be implemented from 24 September 2017.
The milk production percentage is a very small when compared to the demand of 1 crore litres. All dairy development societies put together across the state are producing around 7 lakh liters. Karnataka state is supplying 6 lakh liters, AP 4 lakh liters and Gujarat 2 lakh liters to the state.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Therefore, State government is planning to frame a comprehensive policy for dairy sector through which milk production in state can be increased and the state won’t rely on supply from other states.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Telangana govt. is implementing Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme in the state since 2014 to provide financial assistance to SC/ST girl’s marriage. The state govt. is offering around Rs. 75000 cheque on girl marriage who belongs to SC/ST family and minority communities.
Previously, the amount under the Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme was Rs. 50000 but recently, this amount has been increased from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 75,000 by the State government. According to the official notification, the govt. has already distributed the cheques to 14 beneficiaries under the scheme at Madgulapally in the district.
The state government has now included brides from backward classes (BC) and economically backward sections to provide scheme benefits at par with the brides belonging to SC, ST and minority communities. For further details, see Shaadi Mubarak Scheme in Telangana State (Kalyana Laxmi)



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

In the last fiscal year, Over 40,000 young girls from the backward classes and economically backward sections have taken the benefit of the scheme. Application / registration forms for Kalyana Lakshmi Pathakam Scheme can be filled online through the official website of state government using the steps below.
Kalyana Lakshmi Pathakam Scheme Online Registration
STEP 1: Visit the official website of Telangana Govt Centre for Good Governance at https://telanganaepass.cgg.gov.in/
STEP 2: Click on the “Kalyana Lakshmi” banner in the homepage.
STEP 3: On the next page, click the “Click Here” link in front of Register text or directly click this link.
STEP 4: Fill all the required details in the application form provided on the next page. The application form looks similar to below
Kalyana Lakshmi Application Form
STEP 5: After filling all the information, click the “Submit” button at the bottom of the form.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Your registration is complete and the financial assistance is subject to eligibility.
Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme Highlights

The applicant should have permanent residence in the state.
The minimum age of the scheme beneficiary must be 18 years.
Annual household income should be less than Rs. 2 lakh in urban areas.
In rural areas annual household income should be less than Rs. 1.5 lakh.

In the budget, the state government has already made an announcement of around 400 crores for the Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme. In order to make the benefit reach all eligible candidates, there is a need to create awareness in the public about the scheme.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Telangana state govt. has declared to sponsor 100 merit students from minority under the free coaching scheme. The government would sponsor the coaching for preparation of civil service examination at the reputed coaching centres. The govt. would provide financial support and hostel facilities to the selected students.
The govt. has shortlisted 100 students from the minority for the 2018 civil service examination. A committee was constituted by the state govt. to select and identify five best institutions in Hyderabad based on proven track record, infrastructure, faculty and other elements. The selected students has been given the option to choose the institute of their choice.
Benefits of Free Coaching Scheme
Under the free coaching scheme to minority students, the government is also providing Rs. 5000 incentives for the rural students and Rs. 2500 for the urban students. The govt. is also providing hostel facility to Muslim students who are selected to take the benefit of free coaching.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The state govt. has taken this decision in consultation with the Minority and Welfare Department of Telangana. The Department has conceived a novel scheme to provide free coaching for Union Public Service Commission (UPSC).
The main purpose of the scheme is to provide opportunity to minority students and improve their living standard. Through this scheme, a good candidate can become a civil servant and impart their skill to serve the country.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Last year, in civil services exam, around 75 students were qualified from the two telugu states. The free coaching scheme would encourage more students for next session to take benefit of the scheme.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

The state government of Telangana has finally launched the KCR Kit scheme which will come into effect from 4th June 2017. The government has started online registration through its official portal kcrkit.telangana.gov.in. However, the interested pregnant women can get themselves registered by visiting their nearest Public Health Center. 
Auxiliary Nurse Midwife, Medical Officer or Deputy District Medical & Health officer would be able to process the online registration of the pregnant women under the KCR Kit scheme.
KCR Kit Scheme
The KCR Kit scheme was announced by the state government in its 2017-18 budget for pregnant women and new born baby. The state government under the scheme would provide a kit containing some essential items for pregnant women and new born baby to manage the pregnancy complications. The scheme is designed to get pregnant women nutritious food and to take care of the new born after delivery.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

KCR Kit scheme is aimed at well being of mother and child and reducing the infant mortality rate. Encouraging institutional deliveries in the state is also one of the main objectives of the scheme. KCR Kit scheme has been launched under which 16 essential items including the following would be provided 
– Soaps useful for mother and child
– Baby oil
– Baby bed
– Mosquito net
– Dresses
– Sarees
– Hand bag
– Towel and napkins
– Powder
– Diapers
– Shampoo
– Toys for kid


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The items provided in the Rs. 15,000 worth KCR Kit would be useful for the new born for up to 3 months. ‘KCR Kits’ would be distributed to pregnant woman from 4 June.
The pregnant women are given Rs. 12,000 financial assistance in three phases. Incase the pregnant women gives birth to a baby girl Rs. 1000 is given additionally. The idea is to encourage more and more deliveries in the government hospitals, reduce the infant mortality rate and female feticide. After the delivery for the well being of the mother and newborn the government is giving KCR Kit with 16 items. The Kit will have clothes, quality baby soaps, Baby oil, Baby powder, Mosquito net, toys, napkins, Diapers etc., which will be sufficient for three months. This is an affectionate gift given by the government to mother and child.
Rs. 12000 Financial Assistance to Pregnant Women
The state government under the scheme would also provide a financial assistance of Rs. 12000 to working pregnant women to cover the wage loss. The amount would be provided in three installments as per the below schedule. An additional Rs. 3,000 would be given to pregnant women if the baby happens to be a girl.
For more information about the scheme, please visit the official website of Telangana State Government at http://kcrkit.telangana.gov.in





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Telangana State Government has issued new guidelines of Single Women Pension Scheme under which every eligible single women would get Rs. 1000 per month as the pension. The scheme would be launched on Telangana State Formation Day on 2nd June. The beneficiary single women should not be enrolled in any other social security pension scheme or should not be a pensioner in any of the public or private pension scheme.
Eligibility for Single Women Pension Scheme
As per the new guidelines, the single women beneficiary should not be earning more than Rs. 1.5 Lakh annually in rural areas and Rs. 2.0 Lakh in urban areas. The “single women” is referred to married women of at least 18 years of age who is separated from her husband. The separation period should be at least one year. If the women does not have proof of separation period then the details could be ascertained by a local tehsildar.
Unmarried women whose age is above 30 years in rural areas and 35 years in urban areas are also eligible to avail the benefits of single women pension scheme. Other women who are eligible for the single women pension scheme are



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

– Whose husband’s are stuck in gulf countries and now in jails
– Those whose families have abandoned them
– Widows of farmers, handloom workers, bread earners who committed suicide or died in accidents
There are about 2.4 Lakh single women in the state who would be benefited by the scheme as per the survey conducted by the PR & RD Department. The scheme would cost the state government approximately Rs. 34 Crore per month.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

In case the single women remarries and or gets the permanent employment or economic stability, the scheme benefits would be discontinued.
Application Forms for Single Women Pension Scheme
Single women pension scheme application forms would be available only after the scheme is launched. The dully filled application forms would be received from all the eligible candidates. The application forms would then be entrusted by the panchayat secretary in rural areas, bill collector in urban local bodies, and village revenue officer in GHMC areas.
The tehsildar would conduct gram sabhas in GHMC areas for identification of eligible women for the pension scheme. In slums also, Tehsildar or deputy collector would conduct Ward Sabhas while the municipal commissioners would conduct ward sabhas in other urban local areas.
Details procedure of application for Single Women Pension Scheme in Telangana would be available only after the scheme is launched.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Telangana government will soon start a pension scheme for single women from poor families in Telangana to provide them financial support. Under Single Women Pension Scheme in Telangana, an amount of Rs. 1000 will be provided in the form of pension and the government is all set to start the scheme in April 2017.
The scheme will benefit single women whose annual income is below Rs 2 lakh and belong to BPL (Below Poverty Line) families.
“Poverty inflicts more misery among women than men” keeping the point in mind, the government has decided to launch Single Women Pension Scheme under which a pension of Rs. 1,000 will be provided to single women.
The district collectors had also been directed to start registering details of single women eligible for the pension. And the request sent to all legislators to get eligible women enrolled under the scheme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

At present, the government is providing pension to aged people, differently-abled person and widows under Asara scheme. A scheme to provide ₹1,000 as monthly pension to women beedi workers is also under implementation.
To strengthen women, the Telangana government also launched Kalyana Laxmi and Shaadi Mubarak schemes to meet the wedding expenses of girls under which thousands of families benefited and received a financial assistance of Rs 51,000.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

The state government of Telangana has proposed a new scheme named as KCR Kit focusing on women welfare and new born. The chief minister has come out with a Rs. 605 Crore innovative scheme “KCR Kit” for the pregnant women and new born. The scheme will help manage the complications during the time of pregnancy and help reduce infant mortality rate.
KCR Kit Scheme – Objectives
KCR Kit scheme is aimed at providing all essentials for a pregnant women and new born baby thus helping to manage the pregnancy complications. The main objective of the KCR Kit scheme is to reduce the infant mortality rate and encourage institutional deliveries in the state.
The state government has launched this new KCR Kit scheme for the pregnant women with a budget outlay of Rs. 605 Crore for the financial year 2017-18.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

READ MORE: Online Registration for KCR Kit Scheme in Telangana
KCR Kit Scheme – List of Items
The KCR Kit under the scheme comes packed with several essential items for the pregnant women and new born baby. Below is the list of items which will be provided in the KCR Kit.
– Soaps useful for mother and child
– Baby oil
– Baby bed
– Mosquito net
– Dresses
– Sarees
– Hand bag
– Towel and napkins
– Powder
– Diapers
– Shampoo
– Toys for kid


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The KCR kit contains 16 essential items which are useful for the new born for up to 3 months.
Apart from this scheme, the state government is also proposing a scheme for the pregnant women under which it will provide financial assistance to the pregnant women (who tend to work) to cover the loss of income. Under this scheme, Rs. 4000 during the pregnancy and Rs. 4000 after delivery would be provided. Rs. 4000 would be provided at the time of vaccination taking the total financial assistance to Rs. 12000. In case the new born is a girl, an additional Rs. 1000 would be given under the scheme.
The state government has initiated several schemes in the state for the welfare of women and children. Under its Arogya Lakshmi scheme, eggs, milk and nutritious food will be made available through the Anganwadis.
More details about the KCR Kit scheme would be available once the scheme is officially launched.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Telangana state government has launched a new programme for the empowerment of drivers in the state. Under the scheme, SC/ST/BC and minority drivers would be provided skill enhancement training, assistance for placement and financial help for the purchase of vehicle. The state government through the scheme aims to empower the drivers belonging to SC/ST/BC and minority categories.
Online applications at tsobmms.cgg.gov.in
The state government is inviting online applications for the scheme through its official website at tsobmms.cgg.gov.in. The interested candidates can apply for the scheme anytime between 15th to 28th February 2017.
To apply online for driver enhancement programme, the candidates should have minimum qualification of class VIII (8th) pass. The annual household income of the candidate should not exceed Rs. 1.5 Lakh in rural areas and Rs. 2 Lakh in urban areas. The applicants who have appeared in SSC exams (Pass or Fail) will be given preferences under the scheme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The applicants should also have a valid driving LMV license issued by RTA on or before 31st December 2015. Candidates having licence with transport badge will be given preference.
To apply online for the scheme, visit the following link


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

http://tsobmms.cgg.gov.in/driverEmpowermentRegistration.do
and fill the necessary details and attach scanned copies of the required documents.
List of Documents Required for Online Registration

Driving License – Front and Back
Passport Size Photograph
PAN Card – Optional
SSC Marks Memo – Optional

The candidates will be required to fill their basic details in the application form and then submit the form





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

The state government of Telangana has announced a new free lunch scheme for intermediate students in the state. The announcement of the free lunch scheme was made by the Telangana Minister for Education Kadiam Srihari on Saturday, 4th February. 
As per the announcement, the intermediate students in the state would be provided free lunch starting from the coming academic year under the scheme.
The state government has set aside the budget for the implementation of the free lunch scheme for intermediate students. The students studying in 444 junior colleges would be served free lunch under the scheme. There are about 2 Lakh intermediate students which will be benefited by the scheme.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The scheme is applicable only for the intermediate students studying in the government junior colleges across the state. The students studying in private colleges would be included or not under the scheme is still uncertain.
The scheme will help the poor poor students get a healthy lunch for free and contribute to their overall development. The scheme will also encourage more students getting enrolled in the government junior colleges across the state.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});






(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

Telangana 2BHK Housing Scheme Application FormsHow to Apply for 2BHK housing scheme in TelanganaUnit Cost of 2BHK Housing UnitEligibility Criteria for 2BHK Housing SchemeReservation Pattern in 2BHK Housing Scheme
2 BHK Housing scheme is a flagship scheme of Telangana Government to provide affordable 2BHK houses to eligible beneficiaries in the state. The state government has already completed the construction of about 80,000 homes in the financial year 2015-16 under the 2BHK housing scheme. In the year 2016-17, the state government has set a target of building 1.4 Crore 2BHK homes under the scheme.
Telangana 2BHK Housing Scheme Application Forms
Each house being constructed under the 2BHK housing scheme will consist of 2 Bedrooms, 1 Hall, One Kitchen and Two toilets with a plinth area of 560 Sq.ft. The estimated cost of the house is Rs. 5.30 Lakh in urban area excluding the infrastructure cost. The pattern of the housing units construction would be G+1 to G+9 based upon the type of land at site of construction.
Telangana 2BHK housing scheme application forms are now available at MeeSeva centers across the states. The interested eligible candidates can submit the filled application forms at any of their nearest MeeSeva centers.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Below is the format of Telangana 2BHK housing scheme application form
Telangana 2BHK Housing Scheme Application Form
Download Telangana 2BHK Housing Scheme Application form in PDF format


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

How to Apply for 2BHK housing scheme in Telangana
The interest applicants just need to visit their MeeSeva centers and submit the filled application form along with the copies of the required documents. The applicants need to fill in their personal details, family details, income, aadhar number, address, contact details and some others in the application form along with a passport size photograph.
The list of MeeSeva centers in your district can be found by clicking the link below.
List of MeeSeva centers in Telangana
Unit Cost of 2BHK Housing Unit



S.No
Area
Unit cost per each house (in Rupees)


House
Infrastructure
Total


1
Rural
Rs. 5,04,000
Rs. 1,25,000
Rs. 6,29,000


2
Urban
Rs. 5,30,000
Rs. 75,000
Rs. 6,05,000


3
GHMC
Rs. 7,00,000
Rs. 75,000
Rs. 7,75,000



Allotment of houses under the 2BHK housing scheme will be done on the lottery draw basis. The draw will be held among the eligible candidates for a particular category of house in any particular locality. Out of the total houses being constructed, 60% of the Houses are earmarked for Outright sale and 40% of houses for hire purchase.
Eligibility Criteria for 2BHK Housing Scheme
No application shall be considered if the applicant:

Owns a house any where in the Urban areas and Urban agglomerations in the State of Telangana.
The income does not fall within the income ceiling limits fixed by A.P.Housing Board from time to time for the different categories.
The income is the aggregate personal income regularly derived by the applicant at the time of application.
Lots are drawn in case the numbers of applications received are more than number of houses notified.
RESERVATIONS: Quota of reservations is followed in the matter of allotment of houses.

Reservation Pattern in 2BHK Housing Scheme
For houses offered on Hire Purchase and Outright sale:



Category
MLA/MP
SC
ST
BC
GS
PH
FF
DP
Total


HIG
3%
16%
6%
9%
10%
1%
1%
3%
49%


MIG
3%
16%
6%
9%
10%
1%
1%
3%
49%


LIG
–
16%
6%
11%
10%
2%
2%
2%
49%



In all the above allotments 30% shall be reserved for Women.
For houses offered under Self Financing Scheme:



Category
MLA/MP
SC
ST
BC
GS
PH
FF
DP
Total


HIG
5%
14%
4%
9%
10%
1%
1%
5%
49%


MIG
5%
14%
4%
9%
10%
1%
1%
5%
49%


LIG
–
14%
4%
15%
10%
2%
2%
2%
49%



The remaining 51% shall be allotted among the remaining applicants.
More details about the Telangana 2BHK housing scheme can be found on the official website at www.2bhk.telangana.gov.in while the allotment procedure is available at the following link.
http://hb.telangana.gov.in/allotmentProcedure.aspx





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Telangana government has raised the amount under Kalyana Lakshmi Pathakam Scheme by 25% for disabled women. The state govt. will now offer Rs. 1,25,145 to women with disabilities on the occasion of their marriage. Previously, the govt. provides Rs. 1,00,116 under Kalyana Laxmi Yojana to low-income families who are deprived of performing marriages of their girl children.
All the interested people who wants to avail this marriage assistance scheme benefits can now apply online at telanganaepass.cgg.gov.in. The enhanced 25% of the amount is to be paid to eligible beneficiaries under the scheme.
Kalyana Laxmi Scheme in Telangana is a wedding assistance scheme for women belonging to SC / ST / OBC / EBC / Minority and other deprived sections of the society.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana Kalyana Laxmi Amount Raised for Disabled – Apply Online
Telangana state government has decided to enhance the amount based on the verdict of the Supreme Court. The verdict said that the disabled must have to get 25% of the additional benefits than the usual beneficiaries under various schemes. So, the govt. has increased the amount under Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme from Rs. 1,00,116 to 1,25,145. All the interested candidates can visit the official website https://telanganaepass.cgg.gov.in/ to apply online for Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme. Here is the complete procedure on how to fill Telangana Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme Online Application / Registration form:-
Telangana Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme Apply Online
All the candidates can apply online at telangana epass official website and get raised assistance on their marriage. This would reduce the burden from the shoulders of poor parents of girl children who are unable to afford marriage cost. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Eligibility to Get Raised Amount under Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme in Telangana
All the girl beneficiaries must fulfill the following conditions to avail the raised Kalyana Laxmi Amount benefits:- 

The applicant should have permanent residence in the Telangana state.
The minimum age of the girl beneficiary must be 18 years.
The girl must be a disabled, however there is no information regarding the percentage of disability.
For SC / ST girls, the income limit is Rs. 2 lakh while for BC / EBC category girls, the income limit is Rs. 1.5 lakh for rural areas and Rs. 2 lakh for urban areas.

For more details, visit the official website at https://telanganaepass.cgg.gov.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: https://www.thehansindia.com/telangana/telangana-government-enhances-kalyana-lakshmi-amount-for-disabled-women-542390
SAVE AS PDF

The state government of Telangana has decided to launch three new self employment scheme to provide livelihood to the youth. The government has introduced three types of new self employment scheme on 30th August, Tuesday.
The three schemes, Scheme-A, Scheme-B and Scheme-C will cater the needs of different project models based on the capital requirement. Under the scheme-A, for projects up to Rs. 1 lakh, 80 per cent of the unit cost will be borne by government as subsidy whereas the remaining 20 per cent amount would be provided as loan through banks.
Similarly, Scheme-B is for the projects costing between Rs. 1 Lakh to 2 Lakh. In this case, government subsidy would be 70% of the total cost while rest can be availed as loan from the banks.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Scheme-C will cater the financial needs of projects costing more than Rs. 2 Lakh. Under this scheme, the state government would bear 60% of the cost of the project or a maximum of Rs. 5 Lakh.
Allowed Activities
As per the scheme guidelines, the government will allow all types of activities under the scheme-A while only industrial or service related activities are allowed in Scheme-B and Scheme-C.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Under the Scheme-C, the small scale industry can be setup. Preference will be given to the industry being setup in the rural areas in the state.
How to Apply
The candidates selected under the Scheme-B and C would become eligible for the loan after undergoing a special Entrepreneurship Development Programme (EDP) training.
The eligible candidates as per the qualification and age limit can apply for the scheme through MPDO, municipal commissioners concerned. The applications then will be scrutinized and recommended to the district level committee.
Then, the district sanction committee will scrutinize the applications and accord administrative sanction to release financial assistance in the form of subsidy to the bank account of the selected beneficiary.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

Mission Bhagiratha, a great initiative by the state government of Telangana has been launched by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi Ji. Mission Bhagiratha is an initiative to provide safe drinking water to everyone through dedicated water pipeline in the state.
To accomplish the mission, state government has designed a water grid project to provide a sustainable and permanent solution to the problem of safe drinking water. The objective of Mission Bhagiratha is to provide 100 liters of clean drinking water per person in rural households and 150 liters per person in urban households.
Mission Bhagiratha – The Water Grid System
The project will cover about 25000 rural and 67 urban habitations across the state. The cost of the project is estimated to be Rs. 42,000 Crores. The project will also rejuvenate more than 45,000 water tanks along with laying the dedicated pipeline grid.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

According to the official website, the state-level grid will comprise of a total of 26 internal grids. The main trunk pipelines of this project would run about 5000 km, and the secondary pipelines running a length of about 50000 km would be used to fill service tanks in habitations. From here the village-level pipeline network of about 75,000 km would be used to provide clean drinking water to households.
The project will draw water from the two main rivers flowing through the state, Krishna and Godavari. A total of 34,000 million cubic meters of water from Godavari and 215000 million cubic meters from Krishna river would be used for the water grid.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

The deadline for the completion of the water grid system is March 2018.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Scheme BenefitsKaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project RecordsStage Wise Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Process
Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Scheme is a Telangana government’s gift to the entire India. This is the world’s largest multi-stage multi-purpose lift irrigation scheme coming from the brainchild of CM K Chandrasekhar Rao. The new Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation project is expected to turn the parched and barren outback of Telangana into a verdant land of milk and honey. For the upcoming years, Kaleshwaram will remain a testimony of Telangana’s gift to the nation which is struggling to grow up the GDP ladder.
After solving all the inter state disputes, obtaining all clearances and permissions, overcoming all obstacles strategically within a short duration of 3 years, the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project is constructed by the Telangana government. Now there would be no more wastelands and no more thirsty throats.
On 21 June 2019, CM KCR will inaugurate the engineering marvel Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project at Medigadda which is moment of pride and honor for India.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Scheme Benefits
The major benefits by the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Scheme are as follows:-

Water is supplied for 2 crops in a year to 45 lakh acres.
40 TMC of water through Mission Bhagiratha to supply safe drinking water daily to each household.
Drinking water to be supplied to 1 crore population in Greater Hyderabad city daily.
Supply of 16 TMC of water to thousands of industries in the state for industrial usage.
Moreover, there is also an opportunity for Hydel power generation.

CM KCR will also switch on the first motor at Kannepally. This is not only the beginning of a new chapter in Telangana but also the beginning of a new book altogether indeed. The 1st book was the “over the decade” movement for Telangana state. The 2nd book in the Telangana’s history is the development through irrigation which will commence through this Kharif season with the inauguration of Kaleshwaram.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project Records

Utilization of 139 MW maximum capacity pumps which were never used anywhere in the world.
World’s longest tunnel route of 203 kilometers.
Kaleshwaram is the one and only project which can lift 2 TMC of water everyday. Efforts are on to lift 3 TMC of water from FY 2020.
This is the only project in the world which caters to the water needs of 45 lakh acres of agricultural land, hundreds of industries and drinking water to thousands of villages.
It is for the 1st time that water is lifted from Godavari river in phases from 92 meters height for supply of water to farmland taking it upto 618 meters height.

One of the main reason for construction of Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project is to get state’s legitimate share in river waters. Telangana is geographically located 100 metres above the sea level and could not construct a dam across the Godavari to tap water. In case a huge dam was constructed, almost half of the Telangana and neighbouring Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh would be submerged. So, the CM KCR led Telangana govt. has conceptualised the Kaleshwaram lift irrigation scheme. 
Stage Wise Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Process
Here is the complete stage wise lift irrigation process from 92 metres to 618 metres:-


Area
Height (in metres)
Height of Lift (in meters)
Water Usage in TMC


Medigadda
92

16.17


Yellampally
148
56
75


Mid-Mannair
318
70
25.873


Sriram Sagar
332.54
14.54
200


Malakpet
432.50
127.50
8.6


Anantagiri
397
95
3


Ranganayaka Sagar
490
117
11


Mallanna Sagar
557
103
108


Kondapochamma Sagar
618
120
29


CM KCR is responsible for conceiving, designing and execution of Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Scheme. This is now considered as the “World’s largest multi-stage lift irrigation scheme”.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/telangana/2019/jun/21/kaleshwaram-lift-irrigation-scheme-telangana-governments-gift-to-the-nation-1993136.html
SAVE AS PDF

Telangana government has announced Crop Loan Waiver Scheme in Budget 2019-20 presented on 22 February 2019. Now the state govt. has proposed to waive off all agricultural term loans upto Rs. 1 lakh. Outstanding farm loans of farmers which are taken till 11 December 2018 are going to be waived off. This is the next major step of the KCR govt. for farmers welfare after the introduction of Rythu Bandhu Scheme.
Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao who also holds the finance portfolio has now presented vote-on-account budget in the state’s legislative assembly. For the successful implementation of Telangana Farm Loan Waiver Scheme, the state govt. is going to spend an amount of Rs. 32,000 crore.
Telangana govt. presents Rs. 1,82,017 crore budget and Revenue expenditure is estimated at Rs. 1,32,629 crore. Around 42 lakh farmers to benefit from Farm Loan Waiver Scheme in Telangana.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana Crop Loan Waiver Scheme 2019-20
The state govt. of Telangana has proposed to waive off all agricultural term loans upto Rs. 1 lakh outstanding as on 11 December 2018. For this Crop Loan Waiver Scheme, an amount of Rs 32,000 crore has been estimated for FY 2019. Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) party led by CM KCR had made a pre-poll promise of waiving off crop loans of farmers before the 7 December 2018 assembly elections.
This is the highest amount which a state govt. is going to spend on Telangana Farm Loan Waiver Scheme. Previously, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh have given much higher costs on loan waiver but their actual allocation was less. Telangana’s estimated and actual allocation is same for the Farm Loan Waiver Scheme in the previous few years. A recent report of the state-level bankers’ committee (SLBC) put Telangana’s estimated cost at Rs. 32,000 crore which is far above Rs. 17,000 allocated in FY 2014-15. 


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Previously for the welfare of farmers, the state govt. had launched Rythu Bandhu Scheme. The govt. is extending support of Rs. 4,000 per acre per crop season amounting to Rs. 8,000 per annum. As per the announcement made in Budget 2019-20, CM KCR has increased this support amount to Rs. 5,000 per acre per crop. The total support in a single year will now be Rs. 10,000 per acre.
Now the state govt. has also proposed to introduce an unemployment allowance scheme in which each eligible youth would get Berojgari Bhatta of Rs. 3,016 per month. The state govt. is working out on the scheme and implementation guidelines of this new scheme for berojgar youth.
The ‘Aasara’ pensions which covers the aged, widows, single women, beedi workers, people suffering from filariasis, handloom workers and toddy-tappers are proposed to be increased from Rs 1,000 per month to Rs 2,016 per month. For the differently abled person, CM has proposed to raise their monthly pension from Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 3,106.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

प्रधान मंत्री फसल बीमा योजना 2020 के लिए ऑनलाइन आवेदन कैसे करें / किसान पंजीकरण कैसे करें, PMFBY के लिए पात्रता, जरूरी दस्तावेजों की सूची, योजना के तहत बीमा राशि के लिए क्लेम कैसे करें और योजना के फ़ायदों के साथ पाएँ योजना के बारे में 

Table of Contents

PM Fasal Bima Yojana Application Form 2020How to Apply Online for PMFBYCheck PM Fasal Bima Yojana Application StatusPMFBY List of DocumentsPM Fasal Bima Yojana – EligibilityPMFBY Premium Amount and Premium CalculatorPMFBY Last Date for Online ApplicationHow to Claim Insurance Amount Under PMFBYPMFBY Benefits and Salient FeaturesPMFBY Guidelines PDFPMFBY AppPM Fasal Bima Yojana – FAQ’s✔️ What is Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana✔️ What is the last date of application under PMFBY✔️ How to Apply for PMFBY✔️ How to Apply Online for PMFBY✔️ How to Apply Offline for PMFBY✔️ What is the premium amount to be paid by the farmers under PMFBY✔️ Who can apply for PMFBY✔️ How to Claim the Insured Amount under PMFBY✔️ In how may days the insured amount will be paid✔️ How to calculate the PMFBY insurance premium amountPMFBY 2020 Complaint / Grievance SectionPMFBY Helpline
Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana 2020 online applications or registration can be submitted online through the official website of PMFBY at pmfby.gov.in. Under PMFBY, one of the many schemes launched by Narendra Modi government, farmers can apply online for crop insurance cover and get financial assistance in case their crops gets damaged due to heavy rain, natural calamities, pests or diseases. Interested farmers can also calculate PMFBY insurance premium amount through the same portal.
Govt. is implementing this Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) across the country for the welfare of the farmers. The premium amount under the PMFBY scheme is set to 2% for Kharif and 1.5% for Rabi crops compared to much higher premium under the previous crop insurance. PM Narendra Modi launched this agricultural insurance / crop insurance scheme on 18 February 2016.
The registration lines for crop insurance for PMFBY 2020 are open and all the interested farmers can apply online for agriculture insurance at the official website of PM Fasal Bima Yojana at pmfby.gov.in.



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

PM Fasal Bima Yojana Application Form 2020
Application forms for Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana can be submitted online or offline through the official portal or through banks / CSC centers respectively. All the nationalized commercial banks, co-operative banks and regional rural banks are authorized for registrations of farmers under PMFBY.
Who Can Apply Online for PMFBY: Online the farmers who have not availed any loan through Kisan Credit Card are eligible to apply online for PMFBY. Since the crop insurance is mandatory for farmers who chose to avail seasonal crop loan through Kisan Credit card, they can apply for PMFBY only through the banks.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

How to Apply Online for PMFBY
Below is the complete procedure of how to apply online for agriculture insurance under PMFBY 2020. Online applications for PMFBY can be made through the official portal either using a smartphone or desktop / laptop device.
STEP 1: Visit the official PMFBY portal at pmfby.gov.in
STEP 2: On the homepage, click at the “Farmer Corner – Apply for Crop Insurance by Yourself” section as shown in the figure below:
PMFBY Application Link
STEP 3: On clicking at the farmers corner, create a new user account by clicking at the “Guest Farmers” tab to open PMFBY crop insurance registration form for new farmers or directly click this link.
PMFBY Farmer Registration Link
STEP 4: Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana online application form for the year 2020 will appear as follows:
PMFBY Farmer Registration Form
STEP 5: Enter farmers details such as name and mobile number (Also Verify mobile number), residential details, farmer ID (Aadhar number to be verified), bank account number and details & click at the “Create User” button to complete the registration process.
STEP 6: After making registration, farmers can Login using their registered mobile number to fill the remaining form for crop insurance, upload the required documents and complete the online application process.
Check PM Fasal Bima Yojana Application Status
Already registered farmers can Check PMFBY Application Status through online mode.
PMFBY status can easily be checked by clicking the “Application Status” banner on the homepage and the entering the receipt number in the input box.
PMFBY List of Documents
Following is the complete list of documents required for crop insurance under PMFBY.
Aadhar CardBank Passbook (Bank Account Details), Bhoo-Abhilekh, Sowing CertificateIf you are the land owner, Khasra Number / Khaata Number document is required.Sowing certificate can be a simple white paper with details of sowing signed by Patwari, Sarpanch or Pradhan of the village. The procedure is different for different states, contact your nearest bank branch for this.If you are the sharing-basis farmer, then a copy of agreement with the land owner with Khasra Number / Khaata Number mentioned on it will be required for registration.
PM Fasal Bima Yojana – Eligibility
All the farmers across the country who are involved in notified crops production as land owners, tenants or sharing-basis in the notified areas are eligible to apply for the scheme.
All the farmers must apply and pay the insurance premium in order to avail PMFBY scheme benefits or claim the insurance amount.
PMFBY Premium Amount and Premium Calculator
The insurance premium under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana is much less than any other crop insurance scheme. Below is the complete list of PMFBY premium amount to be paid by the farmer.
For Kharif Crops2% of the eligible insured amountFor Rabi Crops1.5% of the eligible insured amountAnnual Commercial and Horticulture Crops5% of the eligible insured amountPMFBY Premium Amount
The actual insurance premium amount in Rupees can be calculated using the PMFBY insurance premium calculator based on the state / district / crop etc.
PMFBY Last Date for Online Application
Last date for applications for Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana is as following
For Rabi Crops: 31st DecemberFor Kharif Crops: 31st July
However, actual last date of PMFBY application can be obtained from the official portal / nearest CSC center / insurance company or the agriculture officer or the banks in your area.
How to Claim Insurance Amount Under PMFBY
Below is the complete procedure to report the loss of crops and claim the insurance amount from the insurance company.
At first, the farmers have to inform the insurance company, bank, concerned state government officer, or at the toll free number of insurance company within 72 hours of the loss / damage of corps.Bank / concerned state government officer will forward the information to the insurance company.The insurance company will appoint damage surveyor within next 72 hours.The survey of the damage of crops will be done within next 10 days.Payment of insured amount will be received within 15 days after the completion of survey.
Toll free numbers of PMFBY insurance companies
Insurance Company NameToll Free NumberAgriculture Insurance Company1800116515Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.18002095959Bharti Axa General Insurance Co. Ltd.18001037712Cholamandalam MD General Insurance Co. Ltd.18002005544Future Generali India Insurance Co. Ltd.18002664141HDFC ERGO General Insurance Co. Ltd.18002660700ICICI Lombard General Insurance Co. Ltd.18002669725IFFCO Tokio General Insurance Co. Ltd.1800-103-5490National Insurance Co. Ltd.18002007710New India Assurance Company18002091415Oriental Insurance1800118485Reliance General Insurance Co. Ltd.18001024088/180030024088Royal Sundaram General Insurance Co. Ltd.18005689999SBI General Insurance18001232310Shriram General Insurance Co. Ltd.180030030000/18001033009TATA AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd.18002093536United India Insurance Co.180042533333Universal Sompo General Insurance Company18002005142Toll free numbers of PMFBY insurance companies
PMFBY Benefits and Salient Features
PMFBY benefits includes Investment Protection and Yield Protection as two main benefits. Below are some of the salient features of PM Fasal Bima Yojana.
Very Less Premium AmountComplete insured amount in case of loss of crops due to natural calamity.Make the agriculture more beneficial.Promote the development of farmers and agriculture in India.Easy Online application and claim procedure.Online insurance premium calculator.24×7 helpline at [email protected]
PMFBY Guidelines PDF
The detailed revised guidelines of Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana can be downloaded in PDF format using the below given links.PMFBY Guidelines – Revised (English): https://pmfby.gov.in/pdf/Revised_Operational_Guidelines.pdfPMFBY Guidelines – Revised (Hindi): https://pmfby.gov.in/pdf/Revised_Operational_Guidelines_Hindi.pdf
Other documents including the older PMFBY guidelines can be downloaded from this link.
PMFBY App
Download the official app of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana using the below link.
PMFBY App
PM Fasal Bima Yojana – FAQ’s



✔️ What is Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana
Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana or PMFBY is a crop insurance scheme for farmers being run by Central Government across India



✔️ What is the last date of application under PMFBY
Every Year 31st July is the last date for Kharif crops and 31st December is the last date for Rabi crops



✔️ How to Apply for PMFBY
Farmers can apply online or offline for the crop insurance under PMFBY



✔️ How to Apply Online for PMFBY
Farmers can apply online for Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana through the official portal of the scheme at pmfby.gov.in



✔️ How to Apply Offline for PMFBY
Offline applications can be done through the bank branches / common service centers across the country.



✔️ What is the premium amount to be paid by the farmers under PMFBY
Farmers have to par 2% of the insured amount, Kharif crops and 1.5% for Rabi crops and 5% of the insured amount for the commercial annual crops and gardening crops



✔️ Who can apply for PMFBY
Any farmer who is a land owner or tenant or sharing-basis can apply for crop insurance under PMFBY



✔️ How to Claim the Insured Amount under PMFBY
The PMFBY claim procedure is very easy, farmers who have taken the crop insurance just have to call the toll free number of the insurance company or inform the bank / concerned agriculture officer within 72 hours of the crop loss or damage.



✔️ In how may days the insured amount will be paid
After the survey of damaged crops is complete, insured amount will be transferred to the bank account of farmer within 15 days.



✔️ How to calculate the PMFBY insurance premium amount
Farmers can use the PMFBY insurance premium calculator on the official portal to calculate the same on the basis of state / district / crop and area.




PMFBY 2020 Complaint / Grievance Section
For the convenience of farmers, Govt. has also provided the Technical Grievance facility for any technical issue. Now farmers can submit any technical issue directly to the concerned authorities. 
For this, farmers needs to click at the “Complaints – Tell Us About Your Problems” section to open the complaint registration form.
PMFBY Technical Grievance
Fill all the details in the complaint form and hit the “Submit” button to send your complaint.
PMFBY Helpline
For any query about PMFBY, farmers write their queries at [email protected]





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

SAVE AS PDF

तेलंगाना में नए राशन कार्ड (खाद्य सुरक्षा कार्ड) हेतु आवेदन पत्र PDF डाउनलोड करें हिंदी में, राशन कार्ड सूची 2019-2020 में अपना नाम शामिल करने के लिए जरुरी कागज़ात और पूरी प्रक्रिया जानें

Table of Contents

Telangana Ration Card (Food Security Card) Online Application FormTelanagana Civil Supplies Department Forms Download PDFWhat is the Eligibility Criteria for Telangana Ration CardList of Documents Required for New Ration Card in TelanganaHow to Check Name in Telangana New Ration Card List 2020Check Telangana Ration Card Application Status OnlineAn Overview of Telangana Ration CardHelpline Number (Toll Free) for Telangana Ration Card
TS Food Security Card Download | Food Security Cards by Aadhar Card in Telangana | Apply Ration Card Online Telangana | Telangana Ration Card Apply Form PDF | White Ration Card in Telangana | National Food Security Card Download
Food and Civil Supplies Department of Telangana has released the TS Ration Card List 2019-2020 (Village Wise). All the citizens who have made fresh registration for the Ration Card / Food Security Cards can now check their name in the Eligible List of NFSA / BPL / APL beneficiaries. Moreover, candidates whose name does not appears in the TS Ration Card New List 2020 and wants to apply for name inclusion in new Ration card list (राशन कार्ड सूची) can apply in the prescribed format at Meeseva centers or at ts.meeseva.telangana.gov.in or www.civilsupplies.telangana.gov.in.
Ration Card in Telangana is a necessary document for the poor people to take benefits of most government schemes. Accordingly, people can purchase rashan at subsidized rates from Ration Shops located nearby. Telangana Ration Card Apply Form PDF is now available for the general citizens of the state. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana govt. has made this ration card new list public to make the process of finding name easier. Now candidates can search their name in the APL BPL List. For inclusion of their name in Ration card list (राशन कार्ड सूची), people can also make new ration card form download in Telangana PDF as given below.
Telangana Ration Card (Food Security Card) Online Application Form
Below is the complete procedure to download the Telangana Ration Card Online Application Form:-


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});


In order to make fresh application for the Ration Card in Telangana, candidates can visit the official Meeseva website at https://ts.meeseva.telangana.gov.in/meeseva/home.htm
Click on “Other Links” section present on the left side of the page and then click at the “Application Forms” link
TS Meeseva Application Forms Download
Afterwards, the Telangana Civil Supplies Department application forms will appear as shown below:-
Telangana Civil Supplies Dept Application Forms

To download application form, click on “Civil Supplies Department” option, here people will get different types of application forms. Click at the following links:-

Apply Ration Card Online Telangana
Telangana Ration Card Apply Form PDF
Food Security Cards by Aadhar Card in Telangana
TS Food Security Card Download


After downloading the application form, take a print out of TS new ration card application form and fill all the details accurately. For more information on how to apply online for Telangana New Ration Card / Food Security Card, click the link – http://www.civilsupplies.telangana.gov.in/HOW%20TO%20APPLY%20FOR%20RATION%20CARD.pdf

The official website of Food & Civil Supplies department of Telangana is ts.meeseva.telangana.gov.in. Candidates must submit a copy of original resident proof, copy of identity proof of Aadhar Card and passport size photograph of applicant along with the completed application form.
Telanagana Civil Supplies Department Forms Download PDF
All the directly download the forms by the Telangana Civil Supplies Department through the links given below:-


Corrections in Food Security Card


Conversion of White Ration Card in Telangana to Pink Card Application Form


Issue of new authorization for FP shops Application Form


Replacement of all existing licenses for Petroleum, LPG and Kerosene Products Application Form


Replacement of Existing FP Shop Authorization Application Form


FP Shop Dealer Payments Application Form


Deletion of Member in Ration Card Application Form


FP SHOP RENEWAL Application Form


House Hold Head Modifications Application Form


New Gas Connection Application Form


Ration Card Member Migration Application Form


Ration Card Missing Details in Database Application Form Copy


Ration Card Modifications (EPDS INTEGRATION) Application Form


Ration Card Transfer Application Form


Surrender of Ration Card Application Form


Farmer Registration Form for Paddy Procurement


Grant of Licensing and regulation of Supplies of Kerosene Products


Grant of Licensing and regulation of Supplies of LPG Gas Products


Grant of Licensing and regulation of supplies of Petroleum Products Application Form


Registration certificate for Transporting Petroleum Products


Renewal of Licensing and regulation of Supplies of Kerosene Products


Renewal of Licensing and regulation of Supplies of LPG Gas Products


Renewal of Licensing and regulation of Supplies of Petroleum Products


Renewal of Registration certificate for Transporting Petroleum Products


Food security Card Transfer application


All the candidates can download the Telangana Civil Supplies Dept. Application Forms PDF and can fill the details in the prescribed format.
Application Fees
There is no application form filling fee and there is no requirement to pay any fees while applying online for new ration card in Telangana. However, applicants can collect their ration cards from the concerned authorities on making a payment of Rs. 10 per copy.
Timelines for Issuing Ration Card in Telangana
All the applicants can submit the complete Telangana Ration Card online application form and new ration cards would be issued within 15 days of submission of application. 
Linking of Aadhaar Card with Ration Card
People can now link their Unique Identification Number or Aadhaar Card with their ration card. This can be done online by visiting the official portal and then clicking at the “Link to UID” link.
What is the Eligibility Criteria for Telangana Ration Card
All the applicants must meet the basic eligibility criteria to get a new ration card in Telangana:-
a) Applicants who are permanent resident of Telangana can apply.
b) Households not already having ration card in the state are eligible.
c) Newly married couples can apply for new ration card.
d) Citizens having temporary ration cards whose date has been expired are eligible.
It is important to note that the issue of new ration card in Telangana would be based on the household income as well as economic conditions of the family.
List of Documents Required for New Ration Card in Telangana
Below is the complete list of documents required to apply online for new ration card in Telangana:-

Residential proof such as Voter ID, Driving License, Aadhaar Card (Scanned Copy)
Age Certificate (Scanned Copy)
Identity Proof like Voter ID, Driving Licence, Aadhar Card (Scanned Copy)
Income proof of the family (Scanned Copy)
Recent Passport Size Photograph of the applicant
Valid Mobile Number / E-mail ID
Self Declaration and Certificate issued by Ward Councillor/ Pradhan
Tenancy Agreement (if applicable)

In case of non-possession of above mentioned documents, applications for new ration cards are liable to get rejected.
How to Check Name in Telangana New Ration Card List 2020
All those people who had already applied online can now check their name in the Telangana new ration card list 2020 through the link given below:-
Telangana Ration Card List 2020
Check Telangana Ration Card Application Status Online
Upon submission of the application form, applicants can track the application status till the issue of new ration card in Telangana. In order to check the ration card application status, applicants will have follow the given steps:-

Visit the official link at https://ts.meeseva.telangana.gov.in/
At this page, click at the “E-Status” link and then click at the “Status of the new / defending ration card” link.
Click at the respective links of district for Ration Card Status.
Afterwards, click at the “Application Status of New Ration Card” option and verify details.

Finally, the new ration card status of the applicants in Telangana will appear online.
An Overview of Telangana Ration Card
Here is an overview of Telangana Ration Card which is mentioned in the table below:-


1.
Service Type
Ration Card


2.
State Name
Telangana


3.
Article Category
List / Status / Application


4.
Concerned Department
Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, Govt. of Telangana


5.
Applicable Year
2020


6.
Mode of Checking Status / List / Application
Online


7.
Official Website
https://ts.meeseva.telangana.gov.in/


Helpline Number (Toll Free) for Telangana Ration Card
People can now contact the Food, Civil Supplies & Consumer Affairs Department Telangana. The contact details are given below:-
Helpline number – 1967
Toll free contact no. – 1800-425-9339
Official website – https://ts.meeseva.telangana.gov.in/





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: tg.meeseva.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF



Table of Contents

Telangana Rythu Bandhu Scheme 2019 Now OnlineNeed to Stop Cheque Distribution of Rythu Bandhu SchemeTelangana Rythu Bandhu Scheme Background
The state government of Telangana has decided to transfer amount under Rythu Bandhu Scheme directly into bank accounts of farmers. Now the Telangana Rythu Bandhu Scheme 2019 has been made online. The state govt. will not issue any more cheques for the farmers as it was done in the 1st & 2nd installments of Rythu Bandhu Yojana 2018. 
CM K Chandrashekhar Rao (KCR) said that it would be for the first time that an enhanced amount of Rs. 5,000 per acre per season would be distributed. Previously, CM KCR has raised the assistance amount from Rs. 8,000 per acre to Rs. 10,000 per acre in a single year as cash incentive. 
Now process of giving 1st installment for FY 2019 for Kharif season under Rythu Bandhu Scheme in Telangana would be initiated in the last week of May. This decision is taken in a high-level meeting chaired by CM KCR with the top officials of Agriculture and Finance departments recently. 



(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Telangana Rythu Bandhu Scheme 2019 Now Online
Telangana govt. has made Rythu Bandhu Scheme online and govt. will now stop cheque distribution and introduce online payments. Now the state govt. will deposit Rythu Bandhu money directly into the bank accounts of the farmers. In 2018, before the assembly polls, the state govt. had organized meetings and distributed cheques to the farmers. But from FY 2019 onward, the govt. will credit this amount into bank accounts of beneficiaries. 
As per the official report, there are around 54-55 lakh farmers in the state of Telangana. Each farmer will get Rs. 5,000 per acre in last week of May for Kharif season and the next installment of Rs. 5,000 per acre for Rabi season would be given in month of November. The estimated amount required for Rythu Bandhu Scheme for Kharif season is Rs. 7,500 crore. For this purpose, govt. has given directions to finance department to keep money ready till specified time.


(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Till date, there are around 5 to 6 lakh farmers who had not given their bank account details to the government. This may be due to non-interest in receiving Rythu Bandhu amounts. Those beneficiaries who are not interested in receiving this amount would save around 700-1000 crore of the government. The state govt. will not deposit the amount into the bank accounts of 54 lakh farmers in a single day. This amount would be credited in a phase wise manner. 
Need to Stop Cheque Distribution of Rythu Bandhu Scheme
In the high level meeting chaired by CM KCR, the officials explained the difficulty faced by the machinery at ground level in distribution of cheques to farmers. Moreover, there is a difficulty in the laborious process involved in the preparation and disbursement of cheques from the state head quarter to the village level.
In view of the enforcement of Model Code of conduct during Lok Sabha election, Election Commission of India has asked the Telangana govt. to stop cheque distribution. Moreover, instructions are given to the Agriculture department to disburse the scheme benefit to the farmers accounts directly through online without any publicity.
Telangana Rythu Bandhu Scheme Background
Telangana govt. has launched Rythu Bandhu Scheme as an investment support scheme for farmers. Initially, the state govt. has decided to provide Rs. 8,000 per year (Rs. 4,000 per acre per season) in FY 2018. But from this year i.e 2019, the state govt. will provide Rs. 10,000 per year (Rs. 5,000 per acre per season). The total requirement of fund for the implementation of the scheme in 2019-20 financial year will be Rs 15,000 crore (Rs. 7,500 cr for each Kharif & Rabi season). Last year, the government earmarked Rs 12,000 crore.





(adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});

Content Source / Reference Link: rythubandhu.telangana.gov.in
SAVE AS PDF
